[TD 1]

<eng>PERTHSHIRE ELECTION.

Gaelic Song.<gai>

AIR Fonn.—<eng>“Blythe, Blythe, and merry was she.”<gai>

LUINNEAG.
Nuas an botul mor, ’s an copan,
Slaint an Righ theid grad mo ’n cuairt—
Buaidh le Grey, le Brough’m ’s le Althorp,
Mhinistearan ard a chruin.

1.
On thuaradh dhuinn a mach ’n ‘Reform’
Biodh mid Righail, dileas, dluth,
Mar chlann nan Gael an guaillaibh cheil,
Ri carid no namh nach tionnda cul.

Nuas an botul mor ’s an copan,
Slaint an Righ theid grad mo ’n cuairt—
Buaidh le mor-fhear mor Ghlinn Urchaidh
Carid trein an tsluaigh ’s gach cuis.*

2.
Chaidh Gael gasda, ’s Gall mo ’n cuairt,
Tre Shiorrachd Pheart a dian chuir stri
A dhfheuch co roighnaichadh an sluagh,
A thagradh ’n cuis an Cuirt na riogh’chd.

3.
Na ’n faodadh leis a Ghall ’sa chuirt
Cha bhiodh gach cuis an diugh mar tha
Cha bhiodh taghadh aig aon do’n tuagh
Ged phaidhar leo na ceudan mail.

4.
Co ris a dh’earbar leinn an long
Ach riusadh dhealbh an long ’s an stiuir,
A ghleachd ri beuchdaich gharbh nan tonn
’Scairt maraich dhoibh mar lochran iuil.

5.
Ach comhairl bheirinn air an tuagh,
Cho maith ri Uaislean mor na tir—
Na treigar leibhs’ an trath s’ an Gael,
’Sgu brath cha treig an Gael ud sibh.


* Ri bhi air aithris an deigh gach rann.


<eng>The following translation of the above is appended for the edification of Southron Anti-Reformers:—

1st Chorus.—Bring the large bottle and cup, the King’s health shall quickly go round—Success to Grey, to Brougham, and Althorp, high Ministers of the Crown.

Verse 1st.—Because they brought us out Reform, let’s be loyal, true, and firm, like Highlanders, shoulder to shoulder, who turn not their backs on friend or foe.

2nd Chorus.—Bring the large bottle and cup, the King’s health shall quickly go round,—Success to great Lord Glenorchy, the powerful assertor of the people’s cause.

Verse 2nd.—An excellent “gasda” (this gaelic word comprehends almost every kind of praise) Highlander and a low-country Man are canvassing the Shire of Perth, to try to which of them the people will entrust their cause in the National Court.

Verse 3d.—If the low-country Man had obtained his desire, matters would not be as they happily are; no tenant would have a vote though he paid hundreds of rent.

Verse 4th.—To whom should we confide the management of the helm, but to those who constructed the ship, and guided it through the buffetings of the storm?

Verse 5th.—But one advice I would give the tenant as well as the laird:—Do not now forsake the Reformer, and he shall never forsake you.<gai>


[TD 2]

[Blank]
