[DA 1]

[Blank]


[DA 2]

<eng>First Printed April 1978.

Copyright The Gaelic Society of Inverness.

Published by The Gaelic Society of Inverness.

Printed by The Highland Herald Ltd., 1 Friars Street, Inverness.


[DA 3]

The Campbell Collection
of Gaelic Proverbs
and Proverbial Sayings

Collected by
The Rev. DUNCAN M. CAMPBELL, M.A., PH.D.

Edited by
DONALD E. MEEK

THE GAELIC SOCIETY OF INVERNESS
1978


[DA 4]

[Blank]


[DA 5]

CONTENTS

Preface												vii

Abbreviations and Works Referred to							ix

Introduction—
The Collector											xiii
Campbell and contemporary Gaelic folklore collecting					xv
Campbell’s collection and its relationship to other collections				xx
Gaelic proverbs and the significance of this collection					xxvii
Editorial Policy										xxxv

PROVERBS											1

Appendices											173

Glossary											184

Indexes											195


[DA 6]

[Blank]


[DA 7]

PREFACE

On lst April l927, the Rev. Dr Duncan M. Campbell gave his manuscript collection of Gaelic proverbs to the Gaelic Society of Inverness. The publication of this collection fulfils the hope then expressed that it should appear as a special volume of the Society’s Transactions (see TGSI, xxxiii, p. 309).

My task as editor of the collection began initially in 1969, when I undertook to prepare an edition of the manuscript as part of the course for the M.A. degree in Celtic Studies at Glasgow University. The manuscript was then on loan to the Historical Dictionary of Scottish Gaelic. My attention was drawn to it by Professor Derick Thomson, and my work was supervised by Mr Kenneth MacDonald.

That the collection should now appear in print is due in large measure to the enthusiasm and stimulus of Mr Hugh Barron, Honorary Secretary of the Gaelic Society of Inverness. Quite apart from encouraging the dilatory editor, Mr Barron provided important information about Dr Campbell, and notes on a number of sayings (nos. 95, 105, 117, 167, 249, 371, 390, 485, 535, 679, 741, 756, 846). He also saw the work through the press. I am greatly indebted to him.

I would also like to thank my former supervisor, and now my colleague, Mr Kenneth MacDonald, for help with numerous points, including the Introduction and the Glossary. Mr John A. MacDonald, of Jordanhill College of Education, loaned me one of Dr Campbell’s note books and his interleaved copy of Sar-Obair nam Bard Gaelach, both of which are now in his possession. Mr MacDonald and Mr John A. Smith, former vice-principal of the College, pro-


[DA 8]

vided information about Dr Campbell and his family. The Rev. Alexander Fraser, present minister of Cumlodden, forwarded reminiscences about Dr Campbell from some of the older parishioners.

I wish to acknowledge the generous co-operation of Edinburgh University Library in allowing access to relevant manuscripts, and I am particularly grateful to Mr Charles Finlayson, Keeper of Manuscripts. While searching for information about Dr Campbell’s studies in Germany, I received assistance from Mrs Mason of the Bodleian Library, Oxford.

Finally, I would like to record my deep indebtedness to my wife, Rachel, for constant encouragement and help with all aspects of the editing process, including the painstaking task of correcting proofs.

D. E. M.


[DA 9]

ABBREVIATIONS AND WORKS REFERRED TO —

COLLECTIONS OF (AND WORKS CONTAINING) PROVERBS

(Full references to unpublished collections are found in the Notes to the Introduction.)

BP = J. L. Campbell (ed.), “Proverbs from Barra collected by the late Neil Sinclair”, SGS, x, pt. ii, (1965), pp. 178-208.

Carm. Gad. = Carmina Gadelica (collected by Alexander Carmichael), 6 vols., (Edinburgh, 1900-71).

Fr. Allan = J. L. Campbell (ed.), Gaelic Words and Expressions from South Uist and Eriskay, collected by the Rev. Fr. Allan MacDonald of Eriskay (Dublin, 1958).

GP = H. Barron (ed.), “Some Proverbs from Glenurquhart”, SGS, xii, pt. i (1971), pp. 52-5.

HN = Duncan Campbell’s contribution to “Gaelic Proverbs Symposium”, The Highland News, c. April 1897.

LP = A. Matheson (ed.), “Some Proverbs and Proverbial Expressions from Lewis”, The Journal of Celtic Studies, i, pp. 105-15 (Baltimore, 1950).

M = T. D. MacDonald (ed.), Gaelic Proverbs and Proverbial Sayings (Stirling, 1926).

MacLeod, K., “Gaelic Proverbs and Maxims”, The Oban Times, November 1899 - March 1900. Reprinted in The Celtic Monthly, xvi (l908)-xvii (1909).

MFS = Margaret Fay Shaw, Folksongs and Folklore of South Uist (London, 1955).

N = M. MacInnes (ed.), Nicolson’s Gaelic Proverbs (Glasgow, 1951).

RC = A. MacBain and J. Kennedy (eds.). Reliquiae Celticae, 2 vols. (Invemess, 1892-94).

Whyte, H. (“Fionn”). “Gaelic Proverbs and Maxims”. The Celtic Monthly, xvii (1909–).


[DA 10]

GENERAL WORKS

The Active Gael, Transactions of the Gaelic Society of Glasgow, iv (Glasgow, 1934).

Barron. J., The Northern Highlands in the Nineteenth Century, 3 vols. (Inverness, 1903-13).

Campbell, Lord A. (ed.), Waifs and Strays of Celtic Tradition i (The Craignish Tales) (London, 1899). Gen. editor vols. ii-v. See under Campbell, J. G., MacDougall, J., MacInnes, D.

Campbell, J. F. (ed.), Leabhar na Feinne, (London, 1872).

Campbell, J. F. (ed.), Popular Tales of the West Highlands, 4 vols. (Edinburgh, 1860-62).

Campbell, J. G., Waifs and Strays of Celtic Tradition, iv (The Fians) (London, 1891).

Campbell, J. G., Waifs and Strays of Celtic Tradition, v (Clan Traditions and Popular Tales) (London, 1895).

Campbell, J. G., Witchcraft and Second Sight in the Scottish Highlands (Glasgow, 1902).

Campbell, J. L., Seanfhocail agus Comhadan: Scottish Gaelic Proverbs (Inverness, 1968).

Cawley, A. C. (ed.), The Wakefield Pageants (Manchester. 1968 ed.).

The Celtic Monthly, i-xxv, (Glasgow, 1893-1917).

The Celtic Review, i-x, (Edinburgh, 1904-16).

Contributions to a Dictionary of the Irish Language. See A Dictionary…

A Dictionary of the Irish Language, Royal Irish Academy. (Dublin, 1913-76).

Dinneen, P. (ed.). An Irish-English Dictionary (Dublin, 1927).

Drummond. A., and Bullock, J., The Scottish Church, 1688-1843 (Edinburgh, 1973).


[DA 11]

Dw. = E. Dwelly (ed), An Illustrated Gaelic Dictionary.

FES = Fasti Ecclesiae Scoticanae, 9 vols., (Edinburgh, 1915-61)

Grant, J., Legends of the Braes o’ Mar (Aberdeen, 1876).

The Highland Monthly, i-v (Inverness, 1889-93).

The Highlander (Inverness, 1873-81).

Johnson S., A Journey to the Western Isles of Scotland, Oxford Paperbacks 205 (London, 1970).

MacB. = A. MacBain (ed.), An Etymological Dictionary of the Gaelic Language (Stirling, 1911).

MacCana. P., Celtic Mythology (London, 1970).

MacDonald, A. and A., Clan Donald, 3 vols., (Inverness, 1896-1904).

MacDougall, J., Waifs and Strays of Celtic Tradition, iii (Folk and Hero Tales from Argyllshire) (London, 1891).

MacDougall, J.: G. Calder (ed.), Folk Tales and Fairy Lore (Edinburgh, 1910).

MacDougall, M., The Clan MacKay (Edinburgh, 1963).

MacInnes D. and Nutt, A., Waifs and Strays of Celtic Tradition, ii (Folk and Hero Tales from Argyllshire) (London, 1890).

Mackechnie, J. (ed.), The Dewar Manuscripts Volume I (Glasgow, 1963).

Mackenzie, A., The Prophecies of the Brahan Seer (Stirling, 1923 ed.)

Mackenzie, J. (ed.), Sar-Obair nam Bard Gaelach (Edinburgh, 1907 ed).

MacLean, D. (ed.), The Spiritual Songs of Dugald Buchanan (Edinburgh. 1913).

MacLeod, N., Clarsach an Doire (Glasgow, 1893 ed).

MacNab. P. A., “The Golden Fringe”, The Scots Magazine, vol. 93. No. 6 (September 1970).

MacNeill, F. M, The Silver Bough, 4 vols. (Glasgow, l957—).

Martin. M.: D. J. MacLeod (ed.), A Description of the Western Isles of Scotland (Stirling. 1934).


[DA 12]

Matheson, W. (ed.), The Blind Harper, Scottish Gaelic Texts Society (Edinburgh, 1970).

Matheson, W. (ed.), The Songs of John MacCodrum, Scottish Gaelic Texts Society (Edinburgh, 1938).

Murchison, T. M. (ed.), The Prose Writings of Donald Lamont, Scottish Gaelic Texts Society (Edinburgh, 1960).

Nicolaisen, W. F. H. (ed.), The Proceedings of the Third International Congress of Celtic Studies (Edinburgh, 1968).

Nicolson, A., Handbook to the Isle of Skye (Glasgow, n.d.).

O’ Suilleabhain, S. and Christiansen, R. The Types of the Irish Folktale (Helsinki, 1963).

Robertson, H., “Studies in Carmichael’s Carmina Gadelica”, SGS, xii, pt. ii (1976), pp. 220-65.

The Scottish National Dictionary.

SGS = Scottish Gaelic Studies, i (Oxford, 1926-58; Aberdeen, 1961-).

Simpson, W. D., The Historical St Columba (Edinburgh, 1963).

Sinclair, A. MacL. (ed.), Na Baird Leathanach: The MacLean Bards, 2 vols. (Charlottetown, 1898-1900).

Smith, J., Sean Dana (Edinburgh, 1787).

TGSI = The Transactions of the Gaelic Society of Inverness, i-.

Thompson, Stith, Motif-index of Folk Literature, 6 vols. (Indiana University Studies, 1932-36).

Thurneysen, R., A Grammar of Old Irish (Dublin, 1970 ed.).

Waifs and Strays: See under Campbell, Lord A.

Watson. J. C. (ed.), The Gaelic Songs of Mary MacLeod, Scottish Gaelic Texts Society (Edinburgh, 1965).

Watson. W. J. (ed.), Rosg Gaidhlig (Glasgow, 1929 ed).

Whyte, H. (“Fionn”) (ed), Leabhar na Ceilidh (Glasgow. 1898).

Wilson, B. K., Scottish Folk-tales and Legends (London. 1954).


[DA 13]

INTRODUCTION

THE COLLECTOR

Duncan MacGregor Campbell is perhaps the least prominent of all the Gaelic folklore collectors who were active at the end of the nineteenth century and the beginning of the twentieth. He was born on 16th January 1854, at Benderloch, Ardchattan, Argyll, where his father, Donald Campbell, “am Maighstir Ruadh”, was schoolmaster. (1) There were at least two others in the family—a brother, Gillespie, who became a Church of Scotland minister, (2) and a sister with whom Campbell stayed during the latter part of his life. (3) In 1872, Campbell entered Edinburgh University, where he achieved eleventh certificate of honour in Rhetoric and English Literature for the Session 1875-76, taking the ordinary degree of M. A. at the end of the Session. (4)

There is so far no trace of his activities after graduating, until he re-appears in the records of Edinburgh University in 1883, this time registered as a Divinity student, with his home address given as Inveraray. (5) At this stage he attended the Celtic class at Edinburgh, where he was among the first students of the newly appointed Professor Donald MacKinnon. (6) During the Session 1885-86 he attended further Divinity classes at Aberdeen University, being then attached to the Presbytery of Lochcarron, possibly as a missionary. (7)

On completing his course at Aberdeen, Campbell moved to Skye, where he was missionary at Kyleakin for a brief period. In May 1886 he was taken on trials by the Presbytery of Skye, and licensed as a minister. (8) In April 1887 he wrote to the Presbytery requesting a presbyterial certificate. By this time he was resident in Beauly. (9) It is recorded that he was assistant at St Columba’s Parish Church, Glasgow, for some time, probably in 1888. (10)


[DA 14]

By the spring of 1889, Campbell seems to have returned to his native county, where he was attached to the Presbytery of Lorn. (11) He probably worked in the Appin area, since he is on record as living at Tynribbie. (12) On lst May 1889, Campbell, styled as a preacher, was inducted to the charge of Cumlodden, Lochfyneside, where he remained until he resigned from the ministry for personal reasons on 13th November 1901. (13) Over and above his parish duties, Campbell provided classes in mathematics and navigation for the young men of the district. He is still remembered among the older generation in Cumlodden as a strong, stockily built man with red hair. While in the parish, he was known for his ability as a Gaelic scholar. (14)

After he left Cumlodden, Campbell devoted himself to further study. It is recorded that he went to Germany, where he obtained the higher degree of Ph.D. The earliest reference so far traced to his degree occurs about 1905, and indicates that it was awarded by the University of Bonn. (15) A Ph.D. was an unusual degree to hold in those days, and it is of some interest that the only other Celtic scholar in Scotland who held a Ph.D. at this time was the Rev. George Henderson, lecturer in Celtic at Glasgow University from 1906 to 1911. Henderson had previously studied in Leipzig in Germany, and had been awarded his doctorate by the University of Vienna (Austria). (16) There is no surviving evidence that the two men ever met, but Henderson was clearly well aware of Campbell’s interest in Gaelic folklore, which was very similar to his own (see below p. xix). It seems likely that Campbell’s thesis would have been in the field of Celtic folklore or philology, two subjects which were being explored extensively by German scholars in this period. (17)

Campbell next appears on record in Grimsay, North Uist, about 1905. (18) A former pupil confirms that he taught in the local school. (19) By l908, however, he appears to have moved to Mallaig, (20) and by 1911, he was living in Bunachton, Dores, (21) but there is no evidence that he taught


[DA 15]

in either place. There is also a possibility that he lived in Broadford, Skye, for a short spell around this time. (22)

The latter years of Campbell’s life are not well documented. He may have spent some years in Glasgow, but for most of the time he probably lived with his sister at Mill House, Bught, Inverness. (23) A postmark on the cover of his collection of proverbs indicates that he was living there in 1919, and this was his usual address at the time of his death on 15th May 1938. (24) While in Inverness, Campbell was a close friend of the Rev. Alexander Boyd, minister of St Mary’s (now Dalneigh) Parish Church from 1924 to 1950. (25) Boyd inherited a number of Campbell’s books and manuscripts after his death.

Duncan Campbell was married with a son and a daughter. His wife, Margaret Douglas Mackechnie, from Campbeltown, whom he married on 22nd January 1890, (26) seems to have had connections with Islay. Nothing is known about his daughter, Florence Mary, who was born on 17th June 1896. (27) His son, Alastair Douglas, who was born on 24th May 1900, (28) lectured in English at Jordanhill College of Education, Glasgow, from 1935 until his death in 1962. (29)


Campbell and contemporary Gaelic folklore collecting

Duncan Campbell’s work as a collector of Gaelic material forms an integral part of, and was doubtless inspired by, a wider movement of Gaelic folklore collecting which was at its height in the second half of the nineteenth century. Collectors had been active in the Highlands in the preceding century, and the first published collection of Gaelic proverbs, that of the Rev. Donald MacKintosh, appeared as early as 1785; but in the mid-nineteenth century, Gaelic folklore collecting was revitalised and it assumed a more scientific and more systematic form. This was due largely to the influence of the German folklore scholars, Jacob and Wilhelm Grimm, whose studies included folk-tales, ballads and philology. The approach of the Grimm brothers


[DA 16]

to folklore was adopted by John Francis Campbell, Iain Og Ile, who produced his four volumes of Popular Tales of the West Highlands between 1860 and 1862, following this with a volume of heroic ballads, Leabhar na Feinne, in 1872, in which he set out the raw texts of earlier collectors. Being the son of Walter Frederick Campbell, the last Campbell laird of Islay, John Francis Campbell was closely related to the main Campbell family, and the patronage and active participation of the Argyll house was to be an important factor in promoting and sustaining the new literary movement. Under the general editorship of Lord Archibald Campbell, who probably also provided financial support, a significant five volume series, Waifs and Strays of Celtic Tradition, appeared between 1889 and 1895. Both Campbell of Islay and Lord Archibald Campbell made use of material provided by roving collectors of skill and enthusiasm, whose contributions have long been overshadowed by the prominence of the editors. Conspicuous among these field-workers were Presbyterian ministers, usually (but not invariably) of “moderate” rather than “evangelical” persuasion, who maintained the tradition established in the previous century by men like the Rev. James Maclagan of Blair Atholl and the Rev. Donald MacNicol of Lismore. Indeed, two of the volumes in the Waifs and Strays series—The Fians (volume iv) and Clan Traditions and Papular Tales (volume v)—were compiled by the Rev. John Gregorson Campbell, minister of Tiree, whose work extended to two further independent volumes, dealing mainly with popular superstitions, and published posthumously in 1900 and 1902. In his preface to the first volume of Waifs and Strays (The Craignish Tales). Lord Archibald Campbell acknowledges the contribution of three other “reverend gentlemen belonging to the Church of Scotland”—the Rev. D. MacInnes of Glencoe, the Rev. James MacDougall of Duror, and the Rev. Duncan M. Campbell of Tynribbie in Appin. (30) MacInnes collaborated with Alfred Nutt, an important folklorist of the time, in producing the second volume in the series, and MacDougall compiled the third volume. An independent volume by MacDougall, Folk Tales and Fairy


[DA 17]

Lore (edited by George Calder) was published posthumously in 1910. The third contributor acknowledged by Lord Archibald is clearly the collector of the present volume of proverbs. On this occasion, Campbell provided the text (and probably the translation) of a folk-tale, “Mar a fhuair Michell Scott fios na h-Inid as an Ròimhe” (“How Michael Scott obtained knowledge of Shrove-tide from Rome”). (31) The tale is prefixed by an identical version of one of the sayings in this collection (no. 72), with a translation and note on the opposite page. The tale also contains another saying which is found in this collection (no. 178).

Campbell’s contribution to the first volume of Waifs and Strays is the earliest evidence so far traced of his activities, and his importance, as a collector of folklore, and it indicates that he must have been gathering material prior to 1889. It also indicates that Gaelic proverbs were not his only interest. This is confirmed by other evidence. One of his surviving note-books contains Gaelic verse, notes on songs, and a section on place-names and place-lore, predominantly from Argyll and Uist. (32) His interest in Gaelic songs is further borne out by an interleaved copy of Sar-Obair nam Bard Gaelach, in which he noted variant texts of Gaelic songs (some of these being very important), stray verses and anecdotes. (33) His interest in Gaelic place-names is underlined by a paper which he had prepared on the place-names of Strath, Skye, and which was read to the Gaelic Society of Inverness by the Rev. Alexander Boyd in 1944. (34) Nor was this all. Campbell gathered a large collection of unusual Gaelic words, which has now been incorporated into the Historical Dictionary of Scottish Gaelic at Glasgow University. (35) The value of his work in this particular field was acknowledged in the compilation of another dictionary, that of Edward Dwelly, who drew on Campbell’s material. (36) It is clear from the dating of entries in Campbell’s copy of Sar-Obair that he maintained his wide interests in Gaelic folklore until he was well on in years. In view of such evidence, it seems highly probable that what survives today is only a fraction of what he gathered during his long and varied life.


[DA 18]

Although Campbell was clearly keenly interested in different kinds of folklore, the substantial size of his collection of Gaelic proverbs, and his desire that it should be published, suggests that he regarded it as his most significant achievement. In devoting so much attention to gathering proverbs and sayings, Campbell probably exceeded the achievements of his contemporaries, but he was by no means the sole worker in this particular area. Indeed, most of the collectors of the period after 1850 were interested in Gaelic proverbs, and as the century wore on, their interests seem to have increased. In 1881, Sheriff Alexander Nicolson published a substantially enlarged edition of the Rev. Donald MacKintosh’s collection, based on the second edition of 1819. Much of the supplementary material in the new edition was sent to Nicolson, then resident in Kirkcudbright, by collectors in the field, the best collections coming from the Rev. John Gregorson Campbell of Tiree, and Alexander Carmichael, who was at that time in North Uist, and who was to publish the first two volumes of Carmina Gadelica in 1900. (37) Nicolson also acknowledges the assistance of a number of less prominent collectors, including the Rev. M. MacPhail, Kilmartin, the Rev. A. MacGregor, Inverness, and Mrs Mary MacKellar. (38) It is of some significance that Nicolson states that Campbell and Carmichael’s collections “came unasked,” (39) since this suggests that they were making independent collections some time before work began on Nicolon’s edition.

Nevertheless, it is clear that Nicolson’s edition acted as an important stimulus to collecting after 1881. This is probably not a reflection of people’s increasing interest in proverbs per se, but more a reflection of the conclusions that Nicolson drew from them. To Nicolson, the “wisdom” contained in Gaelic proverbs provided ammunition against the critics of Gaelic society. His introduction contains a list of the virtues exemplified in Gaelic proverbs. “These Gaelic proverbs,” he emphasised, “give very little indication of those ferocious traits which ignorance or prejudice is apt to regard as specially characteristic of our Celtic


[DA 19]

ancestors.” (40) Such a view went well with the feeling of Alexander Carmichael, and doubtless of other collectors too, that “modern influences were destroying ancient values, proved and cherished through the generations.” (41) Few would have disagreed that Gaelic proverbs were eloquent repositories of these “ancient values.”

A very high level of interest in Gaelic proverb collecting is more than apparent in the last decade of the nineteenth century. This is reflected in the amount of space devoted to proverbs in the Gaelic columns of newspapers. In April 1897, for example, The Highland News of Inverness began a “Gaelic Proverbs Symposium” which had numerous contributors and correspondents, all eager to provide proverbs and superior readings. One of the most prominent contributors to this Symposium was the Rev. Duncan Campbell, who published about 200 sayings, most of which are also found in the present collection. (42) Between November 1899 and March 1900, The Oban Times published about 220 proverbs and sayings from the Rev. Kenneth MacLeod. (43) Other active collectors at this time included the Rev. Alexander Cameron, Brodick; (44) the Rev. Angus MacDonald, Killernan, who made a collection in North Uist; (45) the Rev. Father Allan MacDonald, Eriskay and South Uist; (46) and Donald MacCormick, Kilpheder, South Uist. (47) All of these collectors gathered considerable amounts of material.

Such enthusiasm continued into the early twentieth century, and by February 1912 plans were well advanced for the publication of a fourth edition of Nicolson, this time with further substantial additions. (48) The editor of the proposed new edition was the Rev. Dr George Henderson, whose untimely death later that year halted the project. Henderson’s papers give a vivid glimpse of the activities of the proverb collectors of the turn of the century, and his own organising role as editor, culling from a wide range of sources. His material included contributions fro Donald MacCormick, Kilpheder, (49) Alexander Carmichael, (50) Alexander MacBain, (51) and Frances Tolmie, who made a collection of N. Uist and Skye material before 1908. (52) His newspaper


[DA 20]

cuttings included the contributions of Kenneth MacLeod to The Oban Times (53) and of Duncan Campbell to The Highland News. (54) Campbell’s material was clearly in the process of being edited at the time of Henderson’s death, (55) and it is interesting to speculate whether Campbell’s entire collection would have been incorporated into Henderson’s new edition, had the project gone ahead. The absence of material in Campbell’s own hand, however, suggests that he did not intend this to be the case, although it may well be that we do not possess all of Henderson’s papers.


Campbell’s collection and its relationship to other collections

Duncan Campbell’s collection of proverbs is contained in a large brown-paper scrap-book. The sayings are written on pieces of white paper which have been cut up from larger sheets and arranged in roughly alphabetical order. Most of these pieces are pasted on to the scrap-book, but some are fixed only on the right- or left-hand margin, indicating that they have been inserted after the main page was filled. The scrap-book also contains a number of loose note-book pages, on which some sayings are written in pencil. As the material on these pages is arranged according to districts, and as the handwriting is shaky, they most probably form notes for lectures given in Campbell’s later years. Most of the sayings on these pages are to be found in the body of the main collection, but a few are not. This suggests that part of the original collection may now be lost, and that Campbell had not fully completed the process of transferring his material to the main collection when he handed it over to the Gaelic Society of Inverness in 1927. It is clear, too, that large notes which accompanied some of the proverbs were kept on other sheets. These notes form the basis of the lecture which Campbell delivered to the Gaelic Society when he gave them the manuscript. (56)

The manuscript has all the appearance of careful workmanship. The handwriting is always clear, and shows few signs of hesitation. Obviously Campbell spent a great deal of time writing up his original material, and making it


[DA 21]

presentable. It is difficult to know when he began to place the sayings in the scrap-book, but there are suggestions that it has later than 1900. One saying (no. 911) refers to events in 1900, and a post-mark on the cover is dated 1919. A comparison of the manuscript with material in his contributions to The Highland News of 1897 indicates that he altered some of his sayings in the light of variant versions before placing them in the scrap-book, which often preserves more than one version of a saying. Some of the notes which accompanied the sayings have also been rewritten and abbreviated, but they preserve the same basic material. Occasionally explanations have been added, and other explanations have been supplemented.

The arrangement of the sayings in the manuscript was obviously influenced by Nicolson’s edition of 1881, and Campbell sometimes refers to it. Yet it is apparent that Campbell’s presentation of his material differs from that of Nicolson, and indeed from that of most other proverb collectors of the time. Campbell follows Nicolson’s practice of providing an English translation of each saying, but he generally provides a note on the application of the saying, and frequently extensive notes on allusions in the saying, whether these allusions be to unusual customs, particular people or events, or the origin of the saying. Nicolson, it is true, does supply annotations, but not with the regularity, nor on the scale, of Campbell’s notes. Some notes appear in the collection made by the Rev. Angus MacDonald of Killearnan, (57) but again, they are much less regular and much shorter than those of Campbell. This distinctive style is attested in Campbell’s contribution to Waifs and Strays (see above p. xvii) and also in his contributions to The Highland News in 1897. Such painstaking attention to detail, and to the contexts of sayings, is paralleled only in the collection published by the Rev. Kenneth MacLeod in The Oban Times around 1900 (see below p. xxii).

Another distinguishing feature of Campbell’s collection is that in many instances he notes the districts in which he gathered his material. This indicates that he collected sayings from all the areas in which he is known to have


[DA 22]

served as missionary, minister and, latterly, as a teacher. Sayings from the Inverness district may have been gathered during Campbell’s retirement there, but, on the other hand, he is known to have been in the north at an early stage. Most of his sayings from Argyll and the southern mainland appear in his contribution to The Highland News, and were therefore collected prior to 1897. Presumably it was also around this time that he gathered a significant number of Perthshire sayings which appear in the collection, since he would have been able to travel to Perthshire without much difficulty, and would have had contact with Perthshire people in Argyll. The few saying from the Argyll islands (e.g. Mull, Islay, Lismore, Tiree) were probably obtained by casual contact in this period (see no. 598). By far the greatest amount of his material, however, comes from the Uists, and although he was in North Uist by 1905, it is possible that part of his collection was made much earlier. One of the sayings published it The Highland News (no. 709) is said in the manuscripts have come from Uist. There is, so far, no conclusive evidence that he was active in the Uists in the late nineteenth century, but it should be emphasised that nothing is known of his whereabouts between 1876 and 1883, and that he could have travelled widely if he was a missionary prior to 1883. That Campbell did not publish more than one traceable Uist saying in 1897 does not rule out the possibility that he had other sayings from Uist in his possession at this time, perhaps in a separate note-boook which he had not integrated into the main body of his collection.

The question of whether Campbell was in Uist prior to 1900 is raised in an acute form by the relationship between his Uist material and that in the collection made by Kenneth MacLeod and published in The Oban Times between 1899 and 1900. As indicated in Appendix B, the relationship between the two bodies of material is remarkably close, so close as to suggest either direct borrowing by one collector from the other or collecting from an identical common source. Of the 220 or so sayings in MacLeod’s collection,


[DA 23]

over 180 are found in the Campbell collection, either in identical form, or with some variations. MacLeod is known to have been collecting material in the Uists after 1887. The preamble to the first instalment in The Oban Times states that MacLeod did his collecting while missionary at Carinish, North Uist (before 1900), but MacLeod also states that some of his material came from Eigg, his native island, and that “most of the religious proverbs... were picked up by the writer among his Catholic fellow countrymen of Eigg and Uist.” (58) The arrangement of the collection suggests that MacLeod did not have time to edit his material properly, since the first twelve instalments follow a rough alphabetical order, the sequence being broken by the last two instalments, which both begin at A. MacLeod claimed to have a very substantial collection left in manuscript, which he hoped to print later, but no further proverbial material appeared. His contribution to The Celtic Monthly between 1908 and 1909 was virtually an identical reprint of his earlier contribution to The Oban Times. (59)

The close correspondence between the two collections could possibly be explained by assuming that both collectors covered virtually the same districts, and had similar informants. The two collections, it is true, do not match identically; Campbell has variants of sayings in MacLeod (or vice versa), (60) and the one has material not attested by the other. What underlines the closeness of the relationship, and the likelihood of direct borrowing at some stage, is that in most instances Campbell’s notes correspond to those of MacLeod in style and content, and it has been noted that Campbell had developed a distinctive style of annotation by 1897. Sometimes Campbell’s notes are different in wording, and sometimes, too, different explanations are given by Campbell (e.g. no. 112), but this does not necessarily mean that Campbell started with MacLeod’s notes, and altered them. As the difference between his versions of 1897 and those in the manuscript amply testifies, Campbell was in the habit of altering the form of his notes, and of his sayings, as part of his editorial process. (61) In a number of instances, Campbell’s notes are longer and more specific


[DA 24]

than those of MacLeod. In other instances, MacLeod’s notes contain material not attested in Campbell’s notes, and where this occurs, there seems to be a clash between what is characteristic of Campbell and what is characteristic of MacLeod. As a Moderate within the Church of Scotland, Campbell was not sympathetic to the Evangelical viewpoint, and seldom missed an opportunity to discredit the Evangelicals (and particularly the Free Church, whom he considered to have been unfaithful). Such a standpoint is apparent in saying no. 590, which appears in the published material of 1897, but does not appear in MacLeod. It emerges prominently in numerous other examples in the collection which occur in MacLeod. In one instance (no. 911), MacLeod notes that “the phrase carries us back to the days of the old Celtic Church, the brightest period in our history”, before going on to state that the phrase was applied by the Free Church party to the prayers of the Moderates. Campbell has no reference to the Celtic Church, but concentrates only on later denominational strife. It is clear that MacLeod, and also Alexander Carmichael, were acutely aware of the distinctions which had been created in Highland society by the Reformation, and MacLeod drew attention to the importance of the Roman Catholic population in preserving old traditions to which aggressive Presbyterianism would have been hostile. In his note to saying no. 898, MacLeod says: “Judging the Hebridean Catholics by their legends, hymns, and proverbs, they take a very high place indeed among Scottish Celts... Besides, all good Highlanders owe them a debt of gratitude for their good sense in preserving so much of the old Celtic lore and learning.” This passage is not attested in Campbell’s material, nor is this sort of eirenic comment all typical of his work.

It is of some importance that part of the material common to Campbell and to MacLeod also occurs in Dwelly’s dictionary by way of example. This can be seen, for instance, with nos. 112. 113 (Dw. s.v. aoigheachd, aois), and in other examples noted in the course of the collection. What is most significant is that the sayings which occur


[DA 25]

in Dwelly are identical in form with those in MacLeod where MacLeod differs from Campbell. So, too, are the notes, but in one instance (saying no. 330), Dwelly (s.v. cearbach) has a longer note than either MacLeod or Campbell, although the earlier part of his note is identical with that in MacLeod. This is enough to suggest that Dwelly did not simply copy his material directly from The Oban Times. Nevertheless, Dwelly includes sayings found only in MacLeod. Dwelly’s dictionary began to appear in instalments from about 1902, and the proverbs in question are regularly attested from the second instalment, published not later than 1903. Dwelly does not indicate his source in any of the entries where the proverbs occur, and he does not mention either Campbell or MacLeod in his list of authorities in the first instalment. However, in his list of acknowledgements, first published about 1907, Dwelly gives particular prominence to Campbell, who is also mentioned in the list of authorities in the 1911 edition. There is no reference to MacLeod. It is clear that Dwelly was indebted to Campbell for supplying words for his dictionary from about 1905 (see p. xvii above), and the fact that the dictionary also contains sayings which are found only in Campbell’s collection (e.g. nos. 257, 531, 813) indicates that Dwelly had access to Campbell’s proverbial material, although Dwelly does not acknowledge his source in his entries. It is not unlikely that Dwelly had come into contact with Campbell a few years before 1905, and it is therefore a distinct possibility that be supplied the sayings which are found in his own collection and MacLeod’s. If so, had he previously been given those sayings by MacLeod? Or did he—as the present editor tends to think—provide both Dwelly and MacLeod with very close copies for their own free use?

That Campbell was in the habit of giving material to other collectors is indicated by his early contribution to Waifs and Strays and by his relationship to Dwelly. It is also indicated by the fact that he provided manuscripts for Alexander Carmichael. The evidence for this occurs in a bundle of papers which Carmichael intended to use for


[DA 26]

notes to Carmina Gadelica “if hard up”. (62) One of the papers in this bundle is an English version of “Fionn’s Conversation with Ailbhe”, (63) which has the note “Rev. Duncan M. Campbell’s MSS” in Carmichael’s hand. (64) Beyond this, it is difficult to know what Campbell gave to Carmichael, but it may not be without significance that the glossaries and notes to Carmina Gadelica (mainly, but not solely, in volumes ii and vi) occasionally record sayings which are remarkably close to versions in Campbell’s collection, both in form and annotation (e.g. nos. 14, 118, 456, 728). As in the case of MacLeod’s collection, the situation is complicated by the overlapping or identical geographical areas in which the collectors are known to have worked. It should be noted, however, that Carmichael’s contribution to Henderson has little in common with Campbell.

Whatever the answer to Campbell’s relationship to Carmichael, and to MacLeod in particular, it is important to emphasise that this was the era of composite collecting, when collectors made use of one another’s material, and probably saw themselves as part of the one collecting organisation, aimed at preserving what was left of a great and vital tradition, before it was overwhelmed by the modern world. No moral questions seem to have been asked about borrowing of this kind, nor do they appear to have been necessary. Acknowledgements of contributions need not be too specific, and could be excluded altogether. The extent to which one collector could use another’s material is demonstrated in a series of proverbs and proverbial sayings contributed by Henry Whyte (“Fionn”) to The Celtic Monthly in 1909. (65) These follow on from MacLeod’s contribution, and Whyte makes it clear that they are supplementary to Nicolson. Whyte’s sayings include a large number which can be traced directly back to Campbell’s contributions to The Highland News of 1897, reproduced verbatim and without acknowledgement. Had Campbell given his prior consent, and had he forwarded the material to Whyte? Even if he had not, it would have been difficult to prove copyright, since the material in question had been transmitted orally for generations, and


[DA 27]

nobody could claim ownership. In any event, Whyte could claim that he was working in the capacity of editor.

None of the other collections of proverbs made around the turn of the century raise any question of collaboration between Campbell and their compilers. Campbell’s collection, it is true, shares some material with that of the Rev. Angus MacDonald of Killearnan, (66) but it is clear that this is simply a result of the collectors working in roughly the same area. The same applies to the work of Father Allan MacDonald, Donald MacCormick, and the Rev. Alexander Cameron. In most cases of correspondence, the collectors provide variants of one another’s material.


Gaelic proverbs and the significance of this collection

It is unfortunate in some respects that the English term “proverb” has come to be applied indiscriminately to the corpus of sayings found in Gaelic tradition. A “proverb” is usually regarded as a saying which is a grammatically complete sentence, embodying a general truth or observation. While there are many “proverbs” of this kind in Gaelic, there is also a wide variety of sayings which take the form of phrases, and which do not contain “wisdom” in the sense usually associated with a “proverb”.

In Gaelic itself, the regular term for a “proverb” is seanfhacal. This means literally “an old word”, which makes the point that what gives a saying its authority is not necessarily its content or its literary form, but the fact that it has been in use, and handed down, over many years. There are two other terms, which are used of “proverbs” in Gaelic: comhad, which is mainly a literary term, and which may approximate to the English “maxim”; and gnàthfhocal, “a customary saying”, which is applied almost solely to the Proverbs of Solomon (Gnàthfhocail Sholaimh) in the Old Testament. In the Inner Hebrides, the collective term gràideanas (“what is said”, from [a]g ràdh, the present participle of abair. “say”) is often used of the general corpus of Gaelic sayings, although seanfhacail is also common. The only group of sayings not covered by the term seanfhacail


[DA 28]

(but included in gràideanas) is riddles, which are usually known as tòimhseachain, “teasers, puzzles”, or dubh-fhocail, “obscure words”. Otherwise it is difficut to restrict the range of seanfhacail, from “proverbs” in the usual sense of the word, right through to similes and triadic groups. The Campbell Collection covers the entire gamut of Gaelic sayings, and does not distinguish between different types. The important unifying factor is that the sayings are, or were, regularly used in the areas where Campbell was active, and that they had been in common use, in most instances, for a considerable period.

The substantial size of the Campbell Collection is sufficient evidence of the large body of proverbial material current in the Highlands around the turn of the century. Some of the sayings collected by Campbell turn up in different parts of the Highlands, but there are also numerous sayings which belong to particular areas. The importance of the Collection lies to a large extent in the amount of material gathered in the islands of North and South Uist, and on mainland Argyll (where little Gaelic is now spoken). Regional collections, made since Campbell’s day, indicate clearly that different parts of the Highlands, and particularly the islands, had their own stock of locally based seanfhacail, over and above their share of the common core. (67) Much still remains to be gathered, even where earlier collectors were active.

Although different bodies of seanfhacail were current in different parts of the Highlands, and although the common stock varied in wording from area to area, the basic function of seanfhacail remained the same. In the day to day life of the Gaelic community, seanfhacail served an important practical purpose—that of helping people to come to terms with their environment on a physical or spiritual level. In a predominantly oral society, sayings vested with the authority of ancestral usage provided a code by which people could interpret their individual situations, justify their own actions or condemn the actions of others, and conform to the patterns of their community. The “wisdom” contained in such sayings is more on the level of straight-


[DA 29]

forward common sense and logical deduction than on the level of moral philosophy. The purely practical nature of Gaelic sayings requires to be emphasised, since even yet they are often regarded as repositories of wisdom, constructed by sages of an earlier Golden Age.

When set within their natural context, Gaelic sayings provide an interesting insight into the dynamics of community life in its harsher and gentler aspects. The Thematic Index (p 199) indicates the range of sayings in the Campbell Collection, but it may be useful to consider more fully some of the main groups, and their relationship to the community, with the help of Campbell’s explanatory notes.

The two main subsistence occupations of the Gaelic area—fishing and pastoral farming—are reflected in many of the sayings in the Campbell Collection, and a considerable number of sayings are directly concerned with these occupations. Some of these seem to reflect the instability of Gaelic society in the nineteenth century as clearing, eviction and emigration took their toll. By the second half of the century, the Highlands, and particularly the islands, supported a large cottar population, who had been cleared off their lands, and who now depended on fishing for a livelihood. As a means of support, fishing was far from dependable, and if the season failed, poverty could be widespread. A saying common to Campbell and Nicolson makes the point: “Is math an cobhar an t-iasg, ach cha mhath an sabhal e” (“Fish is a considerable help, but it is not a good stand-by”). The use of the word “sabhal” (literally “barn”) suggests that work on the land is to be preferred. Some sayings (e.g. no. 565) contrast the unpredictability of fishing with the stability of farming, and the benefits of a patch of land, however small. Even so, those on crofts were not without their own difficulties. Subdivision of holdings was becoming widespread, and one saying (no. 570) condemns the evils of sub-tenancy. One saying (no. 648 from Perthshire) seems to refer to the demoralising effect of emigration on communities, while mother (no. 369) correlates the poverty of the land-owning clan and the scarcity of farmers.


[DA 30]

Nevertheless, the abundance of material about agriculture found in the Campbell Collection shows that even by the beginning of the present century, crofting communities were still in good heart. Much of the material relates to seasonal work on crofts and farms. Some sayings offer advice on when to plough (e.g. no. 26), or when to sow (e.g. no. 7). The importance of harvest time is underlined in a number of sayings. The emphasis on the certainty of harvest (e.g. in no. 150) may suggest that it was often difficult, and that fear of poverty was often very real. Campbell preserves three sayings that refer to customs connected with harvesting—the cutting of the first sheaf, known as the “Cailleach”, which was used as a stimulus to cut the crop as quickly as possible (no. 46); the cutting of the last sheaf, known as the “Maighdean”, which was the cause for celebration (no. 649); and the rough treatment given to the driver of the last cart of corn, who thereby marked the end of autumn and the beginning of winter (no. 882). Such work had two aims—to keep both humans and animals alive, and to pay the year’s rent. Money to pay the rent was often hard to find, and it is scarcely surprising that one saying (no. 899) should state that the three greatest nights in the farmer’s calendar were the night the plough was put away, the night the corn was gathered in, and the night the rent was paid. In some areas, landlords demanded a payment in labour or in kind over and above the money rent. This payment in kind is referred to in a saying from Barcaldine, Argyll (no. 673). Seasonal work, and particularly spring work, explains the sayings which anticipate the lengthening day in the first half of the year (nos. 206, 818). It is interesting that some of these (e.g. no. 818) should mark the gradual increase in daylight hours by reference to saints’ days. This indicates the extent to which significant dates in the calendar of the Roman Catholic church came to represent important points in the farming year. This method of dating has survived even in predominantly Protestant areas to this day.

Work on the land and on sea was controlled ultimately by one all-important factor—the weather. Sayings about


[DA 31]

weather in the Campbell collection belong to a very much larger body of Gaelic sayings on this topic. These represent an attempt to reduce to rule the most unsystematic and unpredictable feature of the physical environment, long before the advent of meteorology. Such sayings are the result of close observation of weather phenomena over long periods, and they can often be verified in practice. Some, which refer to physical features of particular areas, are probably of localised significance (e.g. no. 95). A number of sayings correlate weather patterns with the phases of the moon (e.g. nos. 203, 232). In some districts moon phases are still used to predict (often very accurately) when weather is likely to change, and how long a particular spell of weather will last. Occasionally, a saying records the antithesis of the normal pattern, which can result in extremes of weather (e.g. no. 288—a saying known with some variation in different parts of the Highlands).

Although weather must frequently have contradicted all previous observations, there were other aspects of life which defied any rational explanation. This, in part, accounts for the number of superstitious sayings in Gaelic, some of which are found in the Campbell Collection. Sìthichean (“fairies”), for example, were often held responsible for otherwise inexplicable abnormalities; so, too, were men and women said to be possessed of an droch shùil (“the Evil Eye”). In one saying (no. 829), fairies are said to cause paralysis; in another (no. 147), their touch is said to impart the power of the Evil Eye to a child. At the same time, a stratum of superstition not readily explained by the practical needs of the community is apparent in a number of sayings, particularly those concerned with good or bad luck. Some refer to certain days of the week which were lucky or unlucky for beginning a job, or for doing a certain kind of work (e.g. no. 649), while others refer to week days which were unlucky if they coincided with pagan festival days (e.g. no. 162). (These sayings may possibly have been of some importance in regulating the work pattern of a community.) Luck also affected people, and could be passed from one person to another. A couple


[DA 32]

of sayings (nos. 296, 556) refer to people born lucky or unlucky (perhaps to explain why they did or did not prosper), and also to the very common custom of taking an omen from meeting a certain person before beginning a job. Behind these sayings there seems to lie a dualistic struggle between good and evil. This evil could be placated, sometimes by means of charms such as certain kinds of herbs or plants, which often had medicinal properties as well, and which are mentioned in some sayings (e.g. 691, 701). Contrary to what is often thought, organised Christian religion, whether in its Roman Catholic or Protestant forms, did not wholly eradicate such superstitions in the Highlands, any more than scientific medicine dislodged the person with an intimate knowledge of herbs and herbal charms. Rather, Christianity seems sometimes to have increased people’s awareness of the spiritual world, and the threat from evil powers. In this Collection, superstitious and religious sayings are found side by side, as they must have existed in many communities. Occasionally, pagan superstition and Christianity seem to merge (e.g. in no. 554).

A number of sayings reflect the influence of the Christian faith in the Gaelic west. The Roman Catholic church in particular provided a rich store of traditions and sayings about saints and saints’ days, many of which form the basis of material in the collection (e.g. nos. 407, 675). Other sayings in the Campbell Collection generally show respect for the church, but post-Reformation antipathy may be apparent in a saying (no. 55) which equates the priest and the devil, since neither has the right to marry! Occasionally, too, a saying seems to play down, or to avoid, the less palatable teaching of the church. In an area where there was a high infant mortality rate, a saying like no. 180 which makes no reference to the risk of purgatory if a child died unbaptised, and which assumes that the child has passed to a paradise beyond this world, must have afforded a considerable degree of comfort to parents. Protestantism, and particularly the growth of nineteenth century evangelicalism, forms the basis of a number of sayings. Two of these (nos. 122, 253) reflect the division


[DA 33]

between “moderates” and “evangelicals”, and two others (nos. 506, 609) warn against too great a devotion to creideamh (“religion”), presumably of the evangelical variety.

If Gaelic sayings served to regulate the life of the community, and to codify attitudes to forces within it, they also served to distinguish different people inside and outside the community. Some of these sayings could be based on stories connected with particular individuals, thus preserving their memory (e.g. no. 859), or on stories about particular families (e.g. no. 378). In certain cases, these stories could be legendary, while others may have had a basis in historical fact, and a saying must often have provided no more than an introduction to such a story. A number of sayings refer to the characteristics of people from other areas. Although some of these may reflect clan rivalries and old political alignments (e.g. nos. 308, 699), they are most often prejudicial, with no basis in fact (e.g. no. 214). The most uncomplimentary may simply be humorous caricatures (on the level of present-day stories about “Irishmen”, for example), but they may reflect the isolation of different parts of the Highlands. One or two sayings refer to groups of people in terms of animal symbolism (e.g. nos. 380, 793). A few refer derogatorily to certain villages (e.g. nos. 5l, 885).

The majority of Gaelic sayings, however, are concerned with individual types of people, rather than with groups, or the patterns of a community. These deal with a very wide variety of subjects, drawing their motifs from daily work on land or sea, or from legendary material (e.g. traditions about heroic figures like Fionn mac Cumhaill), as well as from many other areas of human experience. Although the basic motif in a saying may be quite specific, the saying itself may be applicable to a number of situations (eg no. 506). Where applications are obvious, the themes are well worn, covering such topics as untruthfulness, laziness, pride or over-confidence. Sayings in which a homely metaphor disguises searching criticism must have been useful in a closely knit society where outspoken


[DA 34]

criticism could have been inflammatory. Sometimes, a saying attempts to correlate the behaviour of certain people with their appearance or colour of hair (e.g. no. 428), or with their heredity (e.g. no. 271). Not infrequently, sayings of this kind reveal the tenets of the relatively classless society of the Gaelic area. Although uaislean (“gentry”) and rìghrean (“kings”) are acknowledged, the imitation of uaisle (“gentility”) without good reason is condemned (e.g. no. 747), while the king is sometimes viewed as the symbol of pride and superciliousness (e.g. in no. 189). The ideals of a non-commercial society are also emphasised—hospitality, generosity and co-operation between neighbours (eg in nos. 42, 236, 619).

If the relationship between Gaelic sayings and the community is of interest, so too is the question of how these sayings originated. The Campbell Collection contains some sayings which appear to be based on international motifs (e.g. nos. 119, 331). Such motifs may have been transmitted from area to area in a manner resembling those of folktales, and adapted to their new environment. On the other hand, the majority of sayings in the collection draw their inspiration from the people’s daily occupations, as well as from specific events within the community, and it is of considerable importance that Campbell ascribes a number of sayings to particular individuals in different communities (e.g. nos. 55, 227). In some cases, sayings may have become attached to the name of a prominent person (e.g. no. 36), but the process whereby a person actually coins a phrase which is then transmitted orally and gradually achieves a life of its own, and the status of a seanfhacal, can be substantiated in Gaelic communities to this day.

It is clear from the alphabetical arrangement of the collection that Gaelic sayings make fairly consistent use of particular formulae, which readily spring to mind, and which can doubtless be paralleled in other languages. Such formulae are of importance within oral tradition, and often include internal rhyme and alliteration. Some sayings in the collection show exquisite use of stylistic devices of this kind, which cannot be matched in translation (e.g. 320).


[DA 35]

Nevertheless, other sayings make little use of formal embellishments, depending for their survival on their humorous content, or on the vividness of their imagery (e.g. nos. 219, 651). Because of their formulaic nature, consistent use, and time-honoured tradition, sayings often preserve words which have dropped out of common currency, or which may have specialised meanings. This is true of a considerable number in the Campbell Collection, as the Glossary (pp. 184-194) clearly indicates.

In its range of material, the Campbell Collection greatly supplements, but does not go much beyond, the range of other collections from the same period. Its distinguishing feature is the way in which Campbell tries to elucidate the background to his examples. For this reason, his work provides an important insight into the role of seanfhacail within the Gaelic area.


Editorial Policy

Campbell’s collection of Gaelic proverbs was intended to supplement the work of Sheriff Alexander Nicolson, and it is clear that Campbell tried to exclude material already found in Nicolson. In this edition, this principle has been maintained, and material common to both collections, with little significant variation, has been excluded from the main body of the collection, and placed in Appendix A. Sayings which appear in identical or variant forms in other collections have been retained, and cross-references to printed collections (but not to manuscript collections) have been provided. The extent of correspondence between Campbell’s collection and that of Kenneth MacLeod has been indicated in Appendix B. The alphabetical order of the original manuscript has been regularised. Notes and references by the present editor are enclosed within square brackets. The collector’s name is abbreviated to C. A glossary has been added, and notes by Campbell on particular words have been transferred to it. Indexes of Persons, Places and Themes have been provided.


[DA 36]

As the collection is meant to be of some interest to the non-Gaelic reader, Campbell’s translations have been modernized (and corrected where necessary). The style of his notes has also been modernised, and his more prolix notes haw been abbreviated. Parallel sayings in other languages, sometimes quoted by Campbell, have been excluded, unless they help to explain the significance of the Gaelic saying. The citation of parallel sayings rightly belongs to a wider comparative study, as yet unattempted, of the origins and transmission of proverbial material.


[DA 37]

NOTES

1. FES, iv. p. 5.

2. Ibid.,p. 101.

3. See note 23 below.

4. Edinburgh University Calendar 1876-77, p. 126 and p. 196.

5. Edinburgh University Matriculation Index and Class Lists 1883-84 (MS.).

6. Celtic Chair Class Register 1883-84 (MS).

7. Aberdeen University Records. I owe this reference to Mr Colin A MacLaren, Archivist.

8. Records of the Presbytery of Skye (SRO: CH2/330/5), p. 402 and pp. 415-5. FES, iv, p. 5, erroneously states that Campbell was licensed by the Presbytery of Lorn.

9. Records of the Presbytery of Skye, p. 457.

10 FES, iv. p. 5; Records of the Presbytery of Inveraray (SRO: CH2/190/8), p. 215.

11. Ibid.

12. Waifs and Strays, i, p. v.

13. Records of the Presbytery of Inveraray, p. 221 and pp. 359-62.

14. I owe this information to the Rev. Alexander Fraser.

15. E. MacDonald (i.e. Edward Dwelly), Faclair Gaidhlig, Earran 5. This part of Dwelly’s Dictionary was published at Herne Bay about 1905 (or possibly late in 1904). On the inside front cover. Dwelly states that he has been promised the assistance of of “D. Campbell Esq., M.A.Edin., Ph.D.Bonn, Grimsay, North Uist” in place of the Rev. A. MacKillop on his editorial team. Cumlodden tradition affirms that Campbell went to Germany on demitting office and obtained his degree there. So far Bonn has provided no information about his period of study. Cf. FES iv. p. 5.

16. The Celtic Review, viii, pp. 245-9; FES, vii, p. 105.

17. Campbell’s thesis is not listed in printed catalogues of German theses for this period. As these catalogues refer to published works, it would seem that his thesis was not published. Bonn has not yet been able to trace it.

18. See note 15 above. The evidence of Campbell’s note-book suggest that he may have been in Grimsay by 1903.

19. I owe this information to Mr John A. MacDonald. While in North Uist, Campbell was popularly known as “an Caimbeulach Mór” (“Big Campbell”).

20. Stated in letter from the late Rev. C. H. B. Harkness, formerly Clerk to the Presbytery of Inveraray, 19th Nov. 1970.

21. E. Dwelly. An Illustrated Gaelic Dictionary (Herne Bay, 1911), Preface.

22. Ibid., List of Authorities Quoted.

23. Mr Hugh Barron obtained this information from a daughter of the Rev. Alexander Boyd, and Mr W. Ferguson.


[DA 38]

24. FES, iv, p. 5; place of residence confirmed by certificate of death.

25. FES, iv. p. 85; ix. p. 654.

26. Ibid., iv, p. 5.

27. Ibid.

28. Ibid.

29. I owe this information to Mr John A. Smith.

30. Waifs and Strays, i, p. v.

31. Ibid., pp. 46-53.

32. This note-book is now in the possession of Mr John A. MacDonald.

33. This copy of Sar-Obair is also owned by Mr John A. MacDonald. As a measure of its importance, see W. Matheson (ed.), The Blind Harper, p. 99.

34. The text of this paper (unpublished) was supplied by Mr Hugh Barron.

35. Forwarded to the Dictionary by the Gaelic Society of Inverness.

36. See notes 15, 21, 22 above.

37. N. pp. xxxii-xxxiii. Carmichael’s contribution is preserved in Edinburgh University Library MS. CW 105 End B (i).

38. N, pp. xxxiii-xxxiv.

39. Ibid., p. xxxiii.

40. Ibid., p. xx.

41. H. Robertson. “Studies in Carmichael’s Carmina Gadelica”, SGS, xii, pt. ii, p. 222.

42. See note 54 below.

43. See note 53 below.

44. RC2, pp. 475-507.

45. Edinburgh University Library MS. CW 133 B, pp. 79-132.

46. Some appear in Gaelic Words and Expressions from South Uist and Eriskay; but see also Edinburgh University Library MS. CW 63 ff. 106-7.

47. See note 49 below.

48. The new edition was to be published by John Grant, Bookseller. Edinburgh, who was preparing to set specimen pages. See GU (i.e. Glasgow University) MS. Gen. 1090 (18), Item 9.

49. Ibid., Item 4.

50. Ibid., Item 5.

51. Ibid., Item 3.

52. Ibid., Items 1, 2.

53. GU MS. Gen. 1090 (5).

54. GU MS. Gen. 1090 (18), Item 10.

55. The first three instalments appear to be missing, and the remaining instalments have been cut up or excerpted.

56. TGSI, x1v, pp. 1-32.

57. See Edinburgh University Library MS. CW 133 B, pp. 94-5.


[DA 39]

58. This occurs as part of MacLeod’s note on saying no. 898 in Campbell’s collection, which forms the last saying in part xii of MacLeod’s contribution to The Oban Times.

59. The Celtic Monthly, xvi, no. 12 (September 1908)-xvii, no. 6 (March 1909). I am grateful to the Very Rev. Dr T. M. Murchison for this reference. It is of importance that the notebook containing the excerpts from The Oban Times (see note 53 above) follows on with a hand-written section of 121 “Additional Proverbs”. As some of these refer to Eigg, Canna and Heisker, one suspects that they constitute the remainder of MacLeod’s collection. If so, it is relevant to the discussion that only one or two of these sayings are found in Campbell’s collection, and that, as a whole, they lack not only translations, but also the regular, detailed and extensive annotation characteristic of those in The Oban Times.

60. In a number of instances where Campbell provides more than one version of a saying, MacLeod’s reading is given as a variant (e.g. nos. 11, 230). See Appendix B.

61. See nos. 757, 779, 852, 893. In his note in HN on saying 417, C. states that “the words were first uttered by Mr Stewart, a former minister of Lismore and Appin”. This detail is omitted in the manuscript.

62. Edinburgh University Library MS. CW 244. The first page of the bundle has the note: “Secular songs—some very good. Perhaps might do for notes if hard up.”

63. See J. F. Campbell (ed.), Leabhar na Feinne, pp. 150-1.

64. Edinburgh University Library MS. CW 244, Item 24.

65. The Celtic Monthly, xvii, no. 7 (April 1909)-

66. MacDonald has, for example, versions of the following sayings in Campbell: 51, 69, 120, 291, 346, 859.

67. For references to some of the most significant of these later collections, see the list of Abbreviations and Works Referred to.


[DA 40]

[Blank]


[TD 1]

A

1. A’ bhó as tàire ’sa bhuailidh, ’s i as àirde nuallan air leacainn.

<eng>The most contemptible cow if the fold lows loudest on the hillside.

[Cf. N. 2, 1; 119, 10.]<gai>


2. A’ buain slat gu e fhéin a dhochiann.

<eng>Cutting a rod to injure hiself.
(Uist)<gai>


3. A Challainn, Challainn O,
Cha tig sinn ach aon uair ’sa bhliadhna;
Gabhaidh sinn ar riarachadh sober;
Gabhaidh sinn an t-ìm air an aran,
An t-aran glan eòrna,
Làn an spàin a dh’uisge-beatha,
’S thugaibh stigh na Callainnean!

<eng>Hogmanay, O Hogmanay, we come only once in the year; we can be supplied with drink and remain sober; we’ll take butter on bread, the pure barley bread and a spoonful of whisky; so bring in the Hogmanay dainties!
(Uist)

[Cf. TGSI, xlix, p. 149. Clearly one of the <gai>“Duain Challainn”<eng> (“Hogmanay Rhymes”) which were recited by “Gillean Callainn” (“Hogmanay Lads”) who visited the houses of friends. See MFS, p. 23.]<gai>


4. A’ chas goirid ’s an àth domhain.

<eng>The leg is short and the ford is deep.
(Uist)<gai>


[TD 2]

5. A’ cheud bhean a-muigh, ’s an dara bean a-stigh, ’s gu freagair na h-aona bhrògan dhaibh le chéile.

<eng>The first wife is away, the second has come, and the same boots fits both of them.

Though the wives change, the nature of the husband and the wife’s duties do not.<gai>


6. A’ cheud ghloine do fhear an tighe, an ath ghloine do’n aoidh.

<eng>The first glass for the host, the second for the guest.

When the host drank from a bottle, it was clear that the guest might do so also. When a bottle of whisky was newly opened, the owner would take a sip with the words, <gai>“Bheir mi am puinnsean dheth.”<eng> (“I’ll take the poison off it.”)<gai>


7. A’ cheud Mhàrt leig seachad, an dara Màrt mas fheudar; an treas Màrt, cuir am poll ’s an eabar e.

<eng>Let the first Tuesday pass, the second Tuesday if need be; on the third Tuesday, sow it in mud and mire.

[For what C. calls the Inverness version, and an explanation, see N 26, 9. Cf. M, no. 478.]<gai>


8. A’ chontraigh ’na reodhadh ’s an reothairt ’na stoirm!

<eng>May the neap tide be frosty and the spring tide stormy!
(Uist)

The prayer of a lazy Uist man. If the neap tide were frosty, no work could be done on the land, and if the spring tide were stormy, no seaweed could be gathered.<gai>


9. A’ chuid as mò ri fàs ’s a’ chuid as fheàrr ri tighinn.

<eng>The greater part is yet to grow, and the better part is yet to come.
(Inverness district)

A kind wish at a child’s baptism.<gai>


[TD 3]

10. A’ chuthag ’s an riabhag.

<eng>The cuckoo and its attendant bird.

Used of insignificant people who dance attendance on the great.<gai>


1l. A’ fàs ris an ùir (al. an uaigh).

<eng>Growing towards the earth (al. the grave).
(Uist)

Used of a young growing person who is not strong and who is likely to die before reaching adulthood.<gai>


12. A’ ghaoth tuath nimheil, thig ás na Hearadh naimhdell.

<eng>It’s a vicious north wind which blows from hostile Harris.
(Uist)

The MacDonalds of Uist and the MacLeods of Harris were old enemies.<gai>


13. A Mhàigein, an ith thu airgead?

<eng>Will you eat money, Maigean?
(Uist)

A question to anyone who undertakes the unlikely, supposed to have been asked first by a half-witted Uist man who received a shilling. He tossed the shilling into the air, at the same time asking his dog, Maigean, the above question. The dog’s response was to swallow the shilling.<gai>


14. A rògaire! A mhic an rògaire! Ogha an rògaire! Iar-ogha an rògaire! Ion-ogha an rògaire! Dubh-ogha an rògaire! Is mura bitheadh tu ’d rògaire, cha bhitheadh tu aig an rògaire!

<eng>You rogue! You son of a rogue! You grandson of a rogue! You great grandson of a rogue! You great great grandson of a rogue! You great great great


[TD 4]

grandson of a rogue! And if you weren’t a rogue, you wouldn’t be working for a rogue!

The words of a Sutherlandshire crofter who scolded a neighbour’s herd-boy for allowing cattle to stray into his corn.

[Cf. Carm. Gad., vi, p. 119, s.v. ròg.]<gai>


15. A shùilean anns a’ ghealaich, ’s a thiùimban air an teallaich.

<eng>His eyes are on the moon and his bottom on the hearth-stone.

Said of a person with big ideas, but little to show for them.<gai>


16. A’ tabhunn leis a’ mhadadh ’s a’ meadhail leis a’ chaoraich.

<eng>Barking with the dog and bleating with the sheep.
(Argyll)

[i.e., running with the hare and hunting with the hounds].<gai>


l7. Achadh na mòna!

<eng>A field of peat!

[From loose sheets within the covers of the MS. C. notes that the phrase was applied to a boaster.]<gai>


18. Ag itheadh mo chuid ’s a’ pronnadh mo chaib.

<eng>He is eating my portion and smashing my mouth.

[Cf. RC2, p. 489.]<gai>


19. Air a chòmhradh fhéin, mar a bha uan an earbaill mhóir.

<eng>At his own discretion, like the lamb with the big tail.

(Literally, “Left to talk to himself...” A lamb with a big tail may have been more likely to carry disease.)<gai>


[TD 5]

20. Air a ghiorran-guanach

<eng>In an easy position

This refers to carrying a child stride-legs behind one’s neck.

[See Glossary s.v. giorran-guanach. Cf. N 356, 11.]<gai>


21. Air sealbh bhàirneach!

<eng>For procuring limpets!

When a shellfish gatherer was about to leave the shore with his shellfish, he threw a limpet hammer or another tool over his left shoulder with the above words, evidently as a wish for future success.

[Cf. Carm. Gad., vi, p. 10, s.v. bàirneach.]<gai>


22. Air thoiseach ’sa choille ’s air deireadh ’san fhéith.

<eng>First in the wood and last in the bog.

The best positions when travelling in a group.<gai>


23. Aird na dalach is ìsle na h-àirde.

<eng>The highest part of the plain and the lowest part of the hillside.

These are the most productive parts.

[Sim. RC2, p. 476; cf. M, no. 531.]<gai>


24. Alasdair dà dhinneir.

<eng>Alasdair of the two dinners.
(Uist)

Used of a greedy person.<gai>


[TD 6]

25. Altruim do leanabh am bliadhna is dèan do ghnìomh an ath bhliadhna.

<eng>Nurse your child this year and do your business next year.

Frequently quoted to a young married woman, meaning that she should do now what must be done; all else must wait.<gai>


26. Am an treabhaidh, an uair a thòisicheas an talamh air sgeith na h-ùrach.

<eng>The time to plough is when the earth begins to throw up the soil.
(Uist)

i.e., after a hard frost.<gai>


27. Am bodach ruadh nach obadh dubhan.

<eng>The rock cod which would not shirk a hook.
(Uist)

This fish is greedy.<gai>


28. Am fear a bheir an car ás an t-sionnach, feumaidh e éirigh moch.

<eng>The person who would outwit the fox must rise early.

Attributed to Allan Breac Stewart, suspected of being the murderer of Colin Campbell of Glenure, when he heard that a party of soldiers was scouring the district to capture him.

[Cf. RC2, p. 476. For traditions connected with the Appin Murder, see John Mackechnie (ed.), The Dewar Manuscripts, Volume I, pp. l94-217.]<gai>


29. Am fear a bheir an iasad, caillidh e a charaid is iasad.

<eng>The person who lends loses his friend and his loan.<gai>


[TD 7]

30. Am fear a chaill a nàire ’s a mhodh, chaill e na bh’aige.

<eng>The person who lost his modesty and his manners lost all he had.<gai>


31. Am fear a chaomhnas a dhinnear, tha brath aig air a shuipear.

<eng>The person who spares his dinner knows where to get his supper.<gai>


32. Am fear a dh’iarras smùirnean, gheibh e smùirnean.

<eng>The person who looks for a mote will get a mote.

i.e., one who has low aims will get a poor reward.<gai>


33. Am fear a dh’ith an cù, faodaidh e a shùgh òl.

<eng>The person who has eaten the dog may drink its juice.

A person’s first step fixes his reputation.

[Cf. N 13, 4.]<gai>


34. Am fear a gheibh a thoil fhéin, chan fhaigh e bàs le sturt.

<eng>The person who gets his own way will not die from sulking.
(Inverness district)<gai>


35. Am fear a nì a’ bhreug, nì e a’ bhraid mas fheudar.

<eng>The person who lies will steal if need be.<gai>


36. Am fear a rinn an t-siothann, glanadh e ’n fhuil.

<eng>Let the person who procured the venison wipe up the blood.

Attributed to a woman who came past when Colin Campbell of Glenure lay dying after he was shot in


[TD 8]

the woods of Ardshiel. She was asked for a piece of cloth to staunch the blood, but refused with these words.

[Cf. no. 28.]<gai>


37. Am fear a tha falamh ’s e gun nì, gur fada shios thèid fhàgail.

<eng>The person who possesses nothing will be low on the list.

[Cf. N 19, 5.]<gai>


38. Am fear a tha gun tàbh, tha a phlàd aotrom.

<eng>The person who has no hand-net has a light basket.<gai>


39. Am fear a tha olc gu fiathachadh, tha e math gu seòladh an rathaid.

<eng>The person who is bad at inviting is good at pointing out the road.

[Cf. N 22, 2.]<gai>


40. Am fear a théid a dh’I, théid e trì uairean ann.

<eng>The person who goes to Iona will go there three times.

There is a pun in this saying. “A dh’I” (“to Iona”) has the same sound as “a dhìth” (“to loss, to destruction”).

[See TGSI, xlv, p. 2.]<gai>


41. Am fear a thig gun iarraidh, suidhidh e gun riarachadh.

<eng>The person who comes uninvited will sit without being served.

[Cf. N 18, 2.]<gai>


[TD 9]

42. Am fear a thigeadh thugam, thuige rachainn.

<eng>I would go to the man who would come to me.
(Uist)

This refers to help given mutually by neighbours on the island.<gai>


43. Am fear a thug a-nunn i, cha leig e a-nall i.

<eng>He who took her over will not let her back.
(Uist)

Said by a hen-pecked husband after be buried his wife.<gai>


44. Am fear aig am bi na h-ùraicean, gheibh e na h-àraicean.

<eng>[The person who has the pitchers will get the coffers(?)]
(Perthshire)

[A person who has the initial advantages obtains what is best later on (?). C. translates, “He who has possessions gets feasts”. See Glossary s.v. ùraicean and àraicean.]<gai>


45. Am fear d’am freagair an currac, caitheadh se e.

<eng>Whoever the cap fits can wear it.
(Uist)<gai>


46. Am fear deireannach, fanaidh a’ Chailleach aige.

<eng>The Clyack sheaf stays with the man who finishes last.

It was once the custom for the man who first finished cutting his corn to tie a sheaf, known as the “Cailleach” (literally, “Old Woman, Hag”), take off the seed, and drop it on an uncut field. The owner of this field repeated the action, and passed it on to another. Thus the “Cailleach” came to rest on the


[TD 10]

last field to be cut. A saying of Argyllshire farmers when finished before their neighbours was:

<gai>Chan fhan a’ Chailleach agam-sa a-nis.<eng>
The Clyack sheaf will not stay with me now.

[This custom was known as “cur Cailliche” (“planting a ‘Cailleach’”), and the person with whom the sheaf stayed finally was often ridiculed by his neighbours. Cf. N, pp. 415-6; Fr. Allan, p. 57, s.v. Cailleach; F. Marian MacNeill, The Silver Bough, ii, pp. 123-4.]<gai>


47. Am fear nach ceil a choire fhéin, cha cheil e coire a choimhearsnaich.

<eng>The person who does not hide his own fault will not hide that of his neighbour.<gai>


48. Am fear nach cuir ’sa Mhàrt, is anmoch a bhuaineas e.

<eng>The person who does not sow in March will reap late.

[Cf. N 20, 7.]<gai>


49. Am fear nach seall ri ghnothach, cha seall a ghnothach ris.

<eng>If a man does not attend to his business, his business will not attend to him.<gai>


50. Am fear ’sa chùil, fear nan caoran.

<eng>The man in the corner provides the peats.

At céilidhs, the man near the peat corner,<gai> “cùil na mòna”,<eng> had to keep the fire supplied with small, hard peats known as “caorain”.

[Cf. N 17, 2.]<gai>


[TD 11]

51. Am Madadh Mór, ’s am Madadh Beag, ’s am Madadh Gruamach.

<eng>The Big Hound, the Little Hound and the Surly Hound.

This refers to the three rocks in Lochmaddy which give the loch its name. They look like crouching hounds. A phrase sometimes added is:

<gai>— ach b’e ’m madadh Loch-nam-madadh fhéin.<eng>
—but the real hound was Lochmaddy (i.e. the village) itself.

See nos. 300, 686.<gai>


52. Am mùirnean a-réir na droma.

<eng>The burden should correspond to the strength of the back.

[See Glossary s.v. mùirnean.]<gai>


53. Am na curachd, co’-là-deug roimh Bhealltainn is co’-là-deug ’na dhéidh.

<eng>The time to sow is a fortnight before May Day and a fortnight after it.<gai>


54. Amaisidh an dall air an réilig.

<eng>A blind man will find his way to the burial ground.<gai>


55. An aon dithis aig nach eil òrdugh-pòsaidh, an sagart ’s am Fear-nach-fhiach.

<eng>The only two who cannot marry are the priest and the Worthless One (i.e., the Devil).

The answer to a question put to a priest by Alexander MacDonald, “An Dall Mór” (“the Big Blind Man”), a Uist bard of the eighteenth century. The bard asked the priest, <gai>“Có an dithis aig nach eil òrdugh-pòsaidh?”<eng>


[TD 12]

(“Who are the two who cannot marry?”). The priest could not answer so the bard did so as above.

[For further information on “An Dall Mór”, who was also a well known catechist, see A. MacDonald and A. MacDonald, Clan Donald, iii, pp. 590-1; W. Matheson (ed.), The Songs of John MacCodrum, p. 208, vii.]<gai>


56. An aon ghoil air an dà chuiteig.

<eng>Two whitings boiled in the same way.

i.e., six and half-a-dozen.<gai>


57. An car tha ’n Eóghann, tha e ’n Iain.

<eng>Ewan has the same twist in his nature as John.<gai>


58. An Carannach is car ann, is car an ceann a’ Charannaich.

<eng>The Lochcarron man is twisted, and he has a particular twist in his head.

[Cf. the Applecross variant:

<gai>An Carannach ’s an car ann, car ’na thòin ’s car ’na cheann.<eng>
The Lochcarron man is twisted; he has a twist in his bottom and a twist in his head.

See no. 339.]<gai>


59. An céin tha maduinn na h-uaighe.

<eng>The morning of the grave lies far in the future.

A line from John Smith’s Dàn Diarmaid (Sean Dàna, p. 53).<gai>


60. An ceò a dh’fhàgas an seann solus, ’s e sneachd no gaoth a sgapas e.

<eng>The mist left by the old moon is dispersed by either snow or wind.<gai>


[TD 13]

61. An cinne mór ’s am pòr tubaisteach.

<eng>The clan is great, but its seed is prone to misfortune.

An island saying about the Clan MacLean.

[Cf. M, no. 613.]<gai>


62. An cù, an duine ’s an t-sleagh.

<eng>The dog, the man and the spear.
(Uist)

This refers to the hunting equipment of olden times and the custom of burying a huntsman’s dog and arms along with his body.<gai>


63. An cù ’s miosa bh’aig Fionn riamh, “Theab”.

<eng>The worst dog Fionn ever had was “Almost”.

[Cf. N 364, 3.]<gai>


64. An cunnart tha ’nar déidh, is farmad e.

<eng>The danger which is behind us is a matter of envy.<gai>


65. An dà sgòd air an aon tobhta.

<eng>Both sheets fastened to one thwart.

An island phrase. In a boat every sheet ought to have its own cleat.<gai>

66. An déidh maduinn ghruamaich thig latha grianach.

<eng>A sunny day follows a gloomy morning.
(Uist)<gai>

67. An déidh torrann geamhraidh, thig sìde ro-mhath, no side nan seachd siantan.

<eng>After winter thunder comes very good weather, or else atrocious weather [literally, “weather of the seven elements”].
(Uist)<gai>


[TD 14]

68. An digh do’n òige, an iodh do’n aois.

<eng>Liquids for the young, solids for the adult [?]
(Uist)

[See Glossary s.v. digh and iodh.]<gai>


69. An dithis mu dheireadh a thréigeas thu, do chù is mac do pheathar.

<eng>The last two to forsake you will be your dog and your sister’s son.

[C. comments, unconvincingly, that the saying “appears to be of Fingalian origin, referring to Fionn and Diarmaid”.]<gai>


70. An eanraich nach itheadh an cù, thugar do Iain Odhar i.

<eng>Let the broth the dog wouldn’t eat be given to Sallow John.
(Uist)<gai>


71. An guag, an lach agus an easgann, trì teisd na h-oidhche.

<eng>The young solan goose, the wild duck and the eel are the three witnesses of night.

[Alternatively, <gai>“Giadh, lach is easgann...” <eng>(“A goose, a wild duck and an eel...”). Does this mean that these creatures are then most active, or that they are the most watchful creatures? See Glossary s.v. teisd.]<gai>


72. An Inid bheadaidh thar gach féill,
Is olc an aimsir duine gionaich thig ’na déidh.

<eng>The time which follows an early Shrove-tide, more than any other feast, is unfortunate for a greedy man [?].

[The point may be that fasting comes earlier in the year than usual, and that a greedy man would prefer it to come later. Cf. N 172, 10; Waifs and Strays, i, p. 46. See Glossary s.v. beadaidh.]<gai>


[TD 15]

73. An latha mharbhas tu fiadh, ’s an latha ’n diabhal gin.

<eng>[To] the day you kill a deer, and the day you kill none.
(Mull)

A toast.<gai>


74. An leanabh a bhaistear, ’s ann air a bhios an t-ainm.

<eng>The name belongs to the child who gets it in baptism.<gai>


75. An nì nach binn le duine, cha chluinn duine.

<eng>What a man doesn’t like, he doesn’t hear.<gai>


76. An nì nach toigh leat, earb ri fear eil’ e.

<eng>What you don’t like, entrust to another.<gai>


77. An rud a bhios an dàn, bithidh e do-sheachaint’.

<eng>What is fated will be unavoidable.

[Cf. N 32, 8; RC2, p. 478].<gai>


78. An rud a bhios a-stigh, is dual gun tig e a-mach.

<eng>What is inside naturally comes out.<gai>


79. An rud a chì sùil fharmadach, miannaichidh cridhe farmadach.

<eng>What an envious eye sees, an envious heart craves.<gai>


80. An rud a chuir an Diabhal a dh’Ifrinn, foighneachd an rud air am b’fheàrr an robh brath aige.

<eng>What sent the Devil to Hell was asking what he knew very well.

[Cf. N 32, 5.]<gai>


[TD 16]

81. An rud a gheibh an Aoine ’na beul, cumaidh i e.

<eng>What Friday gets hold of in its mouth, it will keep.
(Uist and Lorn)

Applied to Friday in connection with weather.

[Cf. BP, no. 33; Fr. Allan, p. 29, s.v. Aoine.]<gai>


82. An rud a nì Dòmhnall Dona, millidh Dòmhnall Dona.

<eng>What Wicked Donald does, Wicked Donald spoils.

[Cf. RC2, p. 478.]<gai>


83. An rud a tha pàighte, cha chuir e dragh tuilleadh oirnn.

<eng>What is paid for will not trouble us any more.<gai>


84. An searrach a bu chòir a bhith ’san làir, ’s ann a tha e ’sa ghearran.

<eng>The foal that ought to be in the mare is in the gelding.
(Uist)

Applied when an unexpected source provides a good return, while an expected source turns out to be fruitless.

[Cf. N 36, 6.]<gai>


85. An sìol a chuireas sinn ri latha na h-òige, buainidh sinn ri latha na h-aoise.

<eng>The seed we sow in youth, we shall reap in old age.<gai>


86. An tàillear nach snaim, caillidh e a ghréim.

<eng>The tailor who does not knot his thread will lose his stitch.

[Cf. N 20, 6.] <gai>


87. An t-ainm as uaisle air a’ chuspaich, milleadh-bròige.

<eng>The most polite name for a chilblain is a boot-sore.<gai>


[TD 17]

88. An tig no ’n téid thu, chailleach, no ’n ith thu feòil corra-ghrithich?

<eng>Will you come or will you go, old wife, or will you eat heron’s flesh?
(Uist)

A question put to forward or greedy people.

[Cf. Carm. Gad., vi, pp. 48-9, s.v. corr.]<gai>


89. An triùir do’m bheil e ceadaichte bhith acrach—aoireannach-cruinn, buachaille tuim, is ban-altruim-cuim.

<eng>The three who are allowed to be hungry are a ploughman, a herd-boy and a wet nurse.
[See Glossary s.v. ban-altruim-cuim.]<gai>


90. An t-uisge a tha ’sa bhràighe, bithidh cuid dheth ’san inbhir.

<eng>Some of the water at the source of a river [literally, “in the higher land”] will be found at its mouth.<gai>


91. An turadh aig càch is an deàrrsach aig Raogaig.

<eng>Rachel has a down-pour while others have dry weather.
(Uist)

i.e., she is late in thatching her house.

[See Glossary s.v. Raogag.]<gai>


92. An uailse an aghaidh na h-eirbhe.

<eng>Pride in the face of poverty.

[Does this mean that people should not feel ashamed of poverty, or that pride is opposed to poverty? Cf. N 361, 3. See Glossary s.v. eirbhe.]<gai>


93. An uair a bhios a h-uile duine air muin a’ bhodaich, bithidh a’ chailleach fhéin air muin a’ bhodaich.

<eng>When everyone is down on the old man, even the old wife is down on the old man.<gai>


[TD 18]

94. An uair a bhios am fear ’na theine, is còir do’n bhean a bhith ’na h-uisge.

<eng>When the husband is on fire, his wife ought to be water. <gai>


95. An uair a bhios ceò air Cruachan, cha bhi pathadh air Urchaidh.

<eng>When Ben Cruachan is covered in mist, the River Orchy will not thirst.
(Argyll)

[Cf. TGSI, xlviii, p. 131.]<gai>


96. An uair a bhios na Fir-chlis ri mire, is gann nach dèan iad milleadh.

When the Northern Lights play, they will probably do harm.
(Uist)

Cf. another Uist saying:

<gai>Thug na Fir-chlis fuil an raoir.<eng>
The Northern Lights drew blood last night.

This is used to explain red lichen on rocks.

[Cf. Fr. Allan, p. 126, s.v. fir-chlisneach.]<gai>


97. An uair a bhris an gad, thàinig Maois.

<eng>When the thong broke, Moses came.

Applied when matters have reached their worst, and must improve. The reference is to the burden of the Children of Israel, relieved by the coming of Moses.<gai>


98. An uair a dh’ éireas tu, seall gun éirich am feur is do dhéidh.

<eng>When you get up, see that the grass rises after you.
(Argyll)

i.e., see that you don’t leave anything behind you when you’ve been resting on the ground.<gai>


[TD 19]

99. An uair a ghéilleas am pinne, fiaraidh na clàir.

<eng>When the pin gives way, the staves will bend.
(Uist)

This refers to the making of small, wooden barrels.<gai>


100. An uair a sguireadh an cearcall a dhol, sguireadh m’athair ’ga chur.

<eng>When the hoop ceased to go, my father would cease to drive it.

[The advice of the daughter of a Kintyre cooper to her preferred lover, when her father suggested that the suitor who could put a hoop on a barrel would get her hand. See TGSI, xlv, p. 3.]<gai>


101. An uair a sguireas toirt, sguiridh moladh.

<eng>When giving ceases, praise ceases.
(Uist)<gai>


102. An uair a thàinig e gu aon thar cóig.<eng>

When it came to one more than five.

i.e., to extremity.

[Cf. no. 866.]<gai>


103. An uair a théid crodh chàich an dìosg, ’s ann an sin a nì Caclach càise.

<eng>When other people’s cows go dry, Dirty makes cheese then.
(Uist)

[Cf. N 333, 5. See TGSI, xlv, p. 3; Glossary s.v. Caclach.]<gai>


104. An uair a thig cìob is cainneachan, tha biadh a’ chruidh a-muigh.

<eng>When mountain grass and cotton-grass appear, food for cattle is to be found outside. (Argyll)<gai>


[TD 20]

105. An uair a thigeadh tu, thigeadh tu!

<eng>When you come, you really do come!
(Lochness-side)

Attributed to an old and stiff Glenurquhart man, who was trying in vain to mount a horse, and invoked the Virgin Mary. Making a supreme effort, he went over the horse’s back and fell on the other side. When he recovered, he made the above remark.

[Cf. TGSI, xlvi, p. 235.]<gai>


106. An uair a thig Rocaburra ris, is dual gun téid an saoghal a sgrios.

<eng>When Rocaburra comes into view, the world is doomed to destruction.<gai>
(Uist)

“Rocaburra” is an imaginary rock in island lore, sometimes equated with Rockall. It is supposed to have appeared twice already. The saying refers to its appearing the third and last time.<gai>


107. An uair as e ròn as cù ’san ruaig, cha téid geàrr a’ chuain ás.

<eng>When a seal is the hound in the chase, the grilse will not escape.
[A reference to the speed of the seal. See Glossary s.v. geàrr a’ chuain.]<gai>


108. An uair nach toir thu làn do dhùirn á cnagan, bheir thu làn do mheòir ás.

<eng>When you can’t take a handful from a crevice, you can take a fingerful.

[See Glossary s.v. cnagan]<gai>


109. Ann am priobadh sùil muice (al. sùil radain).

<eng>In the twinkling of a pig’s eye (al. a rat’s eye).
(Uist)<gai>


[TD 110]

110. Aoidheachd dà fhichead latha a’ phìobaire.

<eng>The piper’s forty days of hospitality.

A qualified piper was entitled to this in any house.<gai>


111. Aoidheachd Mhoisein: siuthad, siuthad, a bhean-an-tighe, chan eil thu a’ gabhail sian.

<eng>The Mean Fellow’s hospitality: help yourself, help yourself, housewife, you’re not taking anything.
(Uist)

The host who does not like the guest gives his wife more attention than the guest.<gai>


112. Aoidheachd Thormoid Mhóir: fuirich, fuirich, tha a’ chearc ’sa chliabh ’s a’ bhean ’sa chladach.

<eng>Big Norman’s hospitality: wait, wait, the hen’s in the creel, and my wife’s at the shore.

i.e., a diet of egg and shellfish, soon cooked for an unwelcome guest.<gai>


113. Aois Leisgein: ceithir-fichead ri muir-tràigh, tri-fichead ri muir-làn agus gann fichead ri gealach shlàn.

<eng>Sluggard’s age: eighty at low water, sixty at high water, and hardly twenty at full moon.
(Uist)

Seaweed has to be gathered at low water, and the boats emptied at high water, the latter being the lighter of the two tasks. No work can be done by moonlight.<gai>


114. Aon eun aig a’ chòrr is e gu doitheamh, doirbh; dà eun deug aig an dreòlan is iad gu soitheamh, soirbh.

<eng>The heron has one chick and it is cross and churlish; the wren has twelve and they are docile and good-tempered.
(Argyll)

Often said to children who are cross and fretful.<gai>


[TD 22]

115. Aontachadh Brionnaig le Briogaig.

<eng>Doubtful’s agreement with Untruthful.
(Uist)

Used when one doubtful character testifies to the truth of another doubtful character’s statement.

[Cf. N 45, 6; Carm. Gad., vi, p. 21, s.v. brionnag.]<gai>


116. Apran ùr air beulaibh Nèill!

<eng>A new apron in front of Neil!

[C. comments that this is “an echo of the MacLean incident at Inverkeithing”. If so, the Neil referred to could be Niall Buidhe, a brother of Eachann Bacach an t-Aosdana, and one of the warriors who defended Sir Hector MacLean of Duart at the Battle of Inverkeithing in 1651. See A. MacLean Sinclair (ed.), The MacLean Bards, i, p. 28 and pp. 46-7.]<gai>


117. “Ar chaol, dhomhain, fras a chur an t-sìl, ’s a’ ghaoth dìreach romhad.”
“Ciod a thubhairt thu?”
“Buain fhliuch is ar reòta.”

<eng> “Plough deep and narrow, sow the seed during a shower with the wind dead against you.”
“What did you say?”
“Reap when it’s wet and plough when it’s frosty.”
(Inverness district)

This was the advice given by a fairy to a ploughman whom she wished to befriend. He questioned the advice she first gave him—what a mortal was never supposed to do. She replied by giving him the piece of bad advice at the end.

A variant states that a mermaid once sat on the shore combing her hair. A ploughman heard her talking to herself and picked up the words:

<gai>“Mìr a dh’aran Ach’ an t-Suidhe, ’s cnothan buidhe Léinidh.”


[TD 23]

“Dé thubhairt thu?”
“Cur fliuch is ar feòla.”<eng>

“Some of the bread of Achantee, and the yellow nuts of Leny.”
“What did you say?”
“Sow when it’s wet, and reap when it’s frosty.”

The places mentioned are in the Lochaber district.

[Similar place-names (<gai>Achadh Dubhaidh<eng> and<gai> Leunaidh<eng>) are found in Glenurquhart, where a fragment of this version was recorded. See TGSI, xlv, p. 390.]<gai>


118. Atharrachadh nan sian ri Gealach a’ Bhruic.

<eng>A change of weather occurs at the time of the Budger’s Moon.

The Badger’s Moon is the next after the Harvest Moon, i.e. the October moon. During this moon the badger cuts and dries the grass for its winter bed. <gai>“Gealach Bhuidhe nam Broc”<eng> (“The Yellow Moon of the Badgers”) is the name given to this moon on Lochfyneside.

[See J. Gregorson Campbell, Witchcraft and Second Sight, pp. 306-7. Cf. Carm. Gad., vi, p. 22, s.v. broc.]<gai>


[TD 24]

B

119. Bà hó, bà hó, bà hó, mo leanabh,
Tha do chàirdean glé lìonmhor an ìochdar nan gleannan;
Tha cuid an Cinntìre ’nam pìobairean ro-mhath,
’S tha cuid dhiubh ’san Oban air bhòrd ’san tigh-leanna.

<eng>Ba ho, ba ho, ba ho, my child, your relatives are very plentiful down in the glens; some are excellent pipers in Kintyre, while others are in Oban on an ale-house table.

A shepherd near Tarbert, Argyll, was suspected of sheep-stealing. Suspicion became so strong that officials searched his house, but they found nothing. The shepherd’s wife gave them every assistance, and then, crooning the above verse, she sat down beside a cradle, which had not been searched and which contained, not a baby, but a sheep’s carcase. The relatives who were excellent pipers were sheep-skins used as the wind-bags of pipes, while those on the ale-house table were payments received when the sheep were sold.

[It is possible that those on the ale-house table were being eaten! See “The Second Shepherd’s Play” in A. C. Cawley (ed.), The Wakefield Pageants, pp. 56-8. for the same motif.]<gai>


120. Baile fada gu latha.

<eng>The village where daylight comes late.
(Uist)

This name is given to Bayble in Lewis. It is said that a stranger once stayed there for the night. The young


[TD 25]

men of the village filled up the windows of his room, so that he waited a long time for daylight, and gave the village this name.

[This tradition is known in other parts of the Highlands, e.g. Tiree, where it was a common prank to fill windows with turf during the night.]<gai>


121. Bainne geamhraidh, mil bho thalamh.

<eng>Having milk in winter is like getting honey from the ground.

[Cf. N 315, 5.]<gai>


122. B’annsa leam ministear-maide na madadh ministeir.

<eng>I would prefer a “wooden minister” to a hound of a minister.
(Uist)

After the Secession of 1843, the ministers of the Church of Scotland were called “ministearan-maide” (“wooden ministers”). This was the observation of a ploughman who served first with a parish minister, and then with a Free Church minister.

[C. betrays his own denominational stance in his note! The term “ministear-maide” was (and still is) usually applied derisively to a non-evangelical, “worldly” minister, irrespective of denomination.]<gai>


123. Bàrr no faobhar, thig air aghaidh!

<eng>Advance, by the point or the edge of the sword!
(Argyll)

Benderloch tradition states that these words were spoken in jest by Stewart of Appin to Campbell of Barcaldine when the former set out to join the Prince in the ’Forty-five. It is said that Appin crossed Loch Creran to induce Barcaldine to join him, but, as a Campbell, Barcaldine had to obey his chief. However, as Stewart was a neighbour and close friend, Barcaldine allowed him to recruit men from his estate,


[TD 26]

as individuals and not as members of the Clan Campbell. Stewart persuaded a few to go with him. They crossed Loch Creran by the old ferry at Rhugarbh. Barcaldine accompanied Appin and the men to the shore, and when he got into a boat, Appin spoke the above words. Barcaldine, standing on a rock above the ferry, made no reply in words, but took his gun and fired a shot over the men’s heads, saying, <gai>“Tha an sin a’ cheud pheilear”<eng> (“There goes the first bullet”). This was apparently the first shot of the ’Forty-five.

[The significance of the original saying is not entirely clear. It could also mean “Advance, whether you face the point or the edge of the sword”.]<gai>


124. Bàrr òir a’ cuartachadh Eilean Ulbhaidh.

<eng>A golden crop surrounds the Isle of Ulva.

A reference to kelp-making. Up to the middle of last century, over a hundred tons of kelp were exported annually from this island.

[See P. A. MacNab, “The Golden Fringe”, The Scots Magazine, 93, No. 6 (September, 1970).]<gai>


125. Bat’ am bòtuinn.

<eng>A walking stick in a boot.

[? i.e., a hindrance.]<gai>


126. B’e sin a’ chroich an déidh na teasaich.

<eng>That would be like going to the gallows after a fever.
(Uist)

Applied when matters go from bad to worse.<gai>


127. B’e sin capuill a chur do Innse Gall.

<eng>That would be like sending horses to the Hebrides.

[A Gaelic equivalent of “Carrying coals to Newcastle”. Cf. N 50, l, 2, 3.]<gai>


[TD 27]

128. Beag no mór Mac-Ille-Mhìcheil, faodaidh tu dol sios gu bàs leis.

<eng>Whether a Carmichael be big or small, you can face death with him.

i.e., he is absolutely dependable.<gai>


129. Bean an aona mhic, bean gun mhac idir.

<eng>A woman with only one son has no son at all.

i.e., where there is only one, he is often pampered and becomes selfish.<gai>


130. Bean gu aois is fear gu bàs.

<eng>A woman until old age and a man until death.
(Uist)

[C. translates “gu aois” as “to her term of life”, and explains that the woman and the man “can bear or beget children to these stages respectively”. Cf. N 183, l; and also RC2, p. 481, <gai>“Bean gus an téid i eug is fear gus am bi e ’na sheann reud”<eng> (“A woman until she dies and a man until he is old and decrepit”), which has the note, “They will be learning until then”.]<gai>


131. Bean le rosgaibh réidh.

<eng>A woman with calm eyes.
(Argyll)

An old man’s advice to his son in choosing a wife.<gai>


132. Beannachd a’ chait a dh’ionnsaigh na luch’.

<eng>The cat’s compliments to the mouse.

Attributed to one of the MacDonalds of Keppoch. He was once visited by a son of the Mackintosh, demanding rents which were due. The latter gave his father’s compliments to Keppoch, who replied as above.<gai>


[TD 28]

133. Beannachd leis an nì dh’fhalbh; chan e dh’fhóghnas.

<eng>Farewell to what has gone; it will not suffice.
(Perthshire)

[Cf. RC2, p. 481.]<gai>


134. Beannaich am bòrd is lìon a’ bhrù. Fhir a chuir an t-seid-s’ òirnn, gun cuir thu seid eile òirnn, bho seid gu seid, chun na seid deireannaich. Fhir a chruthaich an saoghal, cùm daoine bho’n olc. Ge b’e leis an olc sinn, guma olc dha.

<eng>Bless the table and fill the stomach. Thou who didst send us this meal, may thou send us another, from meal to meal, until the final meal. Thou who didst create the world, keep people from evil. May he who wishes us harm fare badly himself.
(Skye)

A grace before a meal.<gai>


135. Beathaichidh an fhaochag neach gus am fàg i e cho dubh ris an duilleig aice fhéin.

<eng>The whelk will sustain a person until it makes him as black as its own shield.
(Uist)

[Cf. Carm. Gad., vi, p. 70, s.v. faochag.]<gai>


136. Beinn-a’-Bhaoghla, a’ bheinn as motha air an t-saoghal.

<eng>Benbecula, the biggest ben in the world.

A jibe at the people of Benbecula.

[Cf. nos. 376, 733.]<gai>


137. Beiridh foighidinn air an latha nach tàinig, ach cha bheir e air an latha nach tig.

<eng>Patience can overtake the day that has not come (i.e., the future), but it cannot overtake the day that will not come (i.e., the past).<gai>


[TD 29]

138. Beirteas tàilleir, dè fheòillinn is meuran.

<eng>A tailor’s wealth consists of two farthings and a thimble.<gai>


139. Beul milis is cridhe cuilinn.

<eng>A sweet mouth and a heart of holly.<gai>


140. Beurla chruaidh Shasunnach agus Gàidhlig bhog Albannach, shiubhlainn an saoghal leò.
Knowing the hard English language and soft Scottish Gaelic, I could travel the world.
(Uist)

[C. attributes this saying to a N. Uist teacher who died some twenty years before he recorded it.]<gai>


141. B’fheàrr a’ chreach a bhith ’san tìr na Là Fhéill Brìghde bhith math.

<eng>It would be better to have a foray in the land than a fine St Bridget’s Day.

St Bridget’s Day is 1st February.

[Cf. N 55, 1.]<gai>


142. B’fheàrr leam dol a thogail cuirp.

<eng>I’d rather go to exhume a dead body.
(Uist)

This refers to the belief that if a body is exhumed, a famine lasting seven years immediately follows.

[It could mean simply that exhuming a body is a very unpleasant task.]<gai>


143. B’fheàrr na “Hó! Hó!” an crodh a bhith ann.

<eng>The cattle’s presence is better than “Ho! Ho!”

i.e., reality is better than pretence.<gai>


[TD 30]

144. Bha dùil agam dol a Dhùn-éideann, ach ’s ann théid mi Bharraidh.

<eng>I had hoped to go to Edinburgh, but I’ll go to Barra instead.
(Uist)

Used when a person expresses the intention to do something that’s not feasible.<gai>


145. Bha e anns an tairgneachd dha so a dhèanamh.

<eng>It was in the Providence-plan that he should do this.

[See Glossary s.v. tairgneachd.]<gai>


146. Bha mis’ air banais ceàird roimhe so.

<eng>I’ve been to a tinker’s wedding before now.
(Argyll)

[i.e., I know how to handle a difficult situation. C. says that the saying is “a polite way to stop intimidation”. For a description of a tinker’s wedding, see H. Whyte, Leabhar na Céilidh, pp. 30-3.]<gai>


147. Bhean a’ bhan-shìthiche ris.

<eng>The fairy woman has touched him.

It was thought that if a fairy woman touched a child, the child would possess the Evil Eye, and become a “gonadair”.

[C. passed on the word “gonadair” in this sense to Dw., who defines it as “Man with an evil eye, one who can bewitch—Argyllsh.”]<gai>


148. Bheir a Callainn a coiseachd dhith.

<eng>Her Hogmanay will cripple her.
(Uist)

Applied to a gad-about.<gai>


[TD 31]

149. Bheir am fiadh salann ás a’ bheinn, ’s cha toir an t-iasg salann ás a’ mhuir.

<eng>The deer takes salt from the hill, but fish do not take salt from the sea. 
(Argyll)

Venison has a saline taste, but fresh fish does not.<gai>


150. Bheir am fogharadh e fhéin a-mach.

<eng>Harvest will bear itself out.

i.e., it never fails.<gai>


151. Bheir an cuan a chuid fhéin a-mach.

<eng>The sea will claim its own.
(Uist)

The ordinary use of the saying is that a person fated to be drowned must go to the place and get into the circumstances where drowning will happen. Another meaning is that all bodies cast ashore by the Atlantic Ocean will be recovered from their resting-places by the sea.

[See W. J. Watson (ed.), Rosg Gaidhlig, pp. 14 f.]<gai>


152. Bheir crathadh ìm á uachdar.

<eng>Shaking brings butter from cream.<gai>


153. Bheir e nùs a mhàthar ás a shròin.

<eng>He will give away his mother’s milk from his nose.

An island saying, used of a person who is easily pumped of information which he might be expected to keep private.

[Cf. N 367, 2.]<gai>


[TD 32]

154. Bheir mireag chuileag ’sa gheamhradh an gnàithseach gu bròn.

<eng>Flies dancing in winter will bring sorrow to the farmer.
(Argyll)

[See Glossary s.v. gnàithseach.]<gai>


155. Biadh is aodach.

<eng>Food and clothes.<gai>


156. Biodh a laogh fhéin aig gach bó.

<eng>Let every cow have its own calf.

This was the judgement of King Diarmaid at Tara regarding the ownership of a Psalter copied by St Columba from a Psalter belonging to St Finian. Columba claimed the Psalter because he transcribed it; Finian claimed it because it was copied from his own. The dispute was referred to King Diarmaid, who in these words gave judgement in favour of Finian. Columba is said to have left Ireland as a result of the ensuing battle.

[Cf. W. Douglas Simpson, The Historical St Columba, pp. 5 f.]<gai>


157. Biodh do bheul mar bheul an fheusgain.

<eng>Let your mouth be like the mouth of the mussel.

i.e., shut.<gai>


158. Biodh do chuigeal deas; cuiridh Dia an duan.

<eng>Have your distaff ready; God will send the tow.
(Argyll)

A lesson in faith.<gai>


159. Biodh sin mar a chìthear dha.

<eng>Let that be as seems suited to it.<gai>


[TD 33]

160. Bithidh an Sgùrr an sud is mise an so.

<eng>The Scoor will remain there and I will remain here.

The words of an Eigg schoolmaster, Iain Og Moraibh, when he was threatened with dismissal.<gai>


161. Bithidh caraid bean-an-tighe an uachdar an tighe.

<eng>The friend of the lady of the house will be in the upper part of the house.

[Cf. BP, no. 86; no. 165.]<gai>


162. Bithidh cuimhn’ aig a’ mhacan-bhaoth a’ Bhealltainn a bhith air Di-haoine.

<eng>Even a silly little boy will remember that May Day fell on a Friday.
(Argyll)

[Cf. N 267, 10, which makes May Day unlucky if it falls on a Thursday; J. Gregorson Campbell, Witchcraft and Second Sight, p. 297; Fr. Allan, p. 39, sv. Bealltuinn.]<gai>


163. Bithidh deireadh an latha salach.

<eng>The day will have a dirty ending.
(W. Isles)

This is used of market-day and other occasions of that kind. It is attributed to the Skye fool, Gilleasbuig Aotrom. He and a companion seated themselves above the rising ground where the congregation of Lochcarron was gathered on a Communion Sunday, and they began to roll stones down the slope among the people. When some of the congregation tried to step them, Gilleasbuig Aotrom ran off with these words.

[For other stories about Gilleasbuig Aotrom, see N. MacLeod, Clarsach an Doire, pp. 233 f. Cf. TGSI, xxx, p. 167.]<gai>


[TD 34]

164. Bithidh othaisg agam an sin co-dhiù.

<eng>I’ll have a hog there in any case.
(Inverness district)

Said in anticipation of something good.<gai>


165. Bithidh taobh an teine aig caraid bean-an-tighe.

<eng>The friend of the lady of the house will get next to the fire.<gai>

[Cf. no. 161.]


166. Bliadhna an teas mhóir.

<eng>The year of the great heat.

In the summer of 1826, no rain fell from May until August, and all rivers, lochs and springs ran dry.<gai>


167. Bliadhna na Féill Martainn fhiadhaich.

<eng>The year of the wild Martinmas.

The year 1826, as remembered in Stratherrick tradition (see no. 166 above). A snow-storm of exceptional severity and long duration began on Martinmas day, and the ground lay under snow until March of the following year.

[See J. Barron, The Northern Highlands in the Nineteenth Century, ii, p. 24.]<gai>


168. Bliadhnachan iasaid.

<eng>Years given on loan.
(Sutherland)

The years granted beyond the Psalmist’s span of seventy.<gai>


[TD 35]

169. Bleoghainnear na bà buidhe, ’s òlar an cuid bainne,
Nuair thilleas na bà bàna gun reic chun a’ bhaile.

<eng>The yellow cows will be milked and their milk will be drunk, when the white cows return home unsold.
(Uist)

Used of girls’ marriage chances. Very often the more attractive ones are the last to get married.<gai>


170. Boil-cinn na Nollaig’.

<eng>The frenzy of Christmas-time.<gai>


171. Breab ’sa mhàs is dòrn ’sa bhus.

<eng>A kick on the bottom and a blow on the mouth.

The way to deal with a contemptible person.<gai>


172. Breabadair is tàillear is muc.

<eng>A weaver, a tailor and a pig.<gai>


173. Briseadh a’ chnàimh agadsa ’s an smior aig càch.

<eng>You have to break the bone while others take the marrow.

i.e., you undergo toil by which others benefit.<gai>


174. Brochan reamhar, amh do na balaich, is brochan tana, bruich do na h-ighnean.

<eng>Thick, raw porridge for boys, and thin, cooked porridge for girls.
(Uist)<gai>


175. Bròg bhileach ’s i ’ga moladh, ’s gun fhios có chaitheas i.

<eng>A welted shoe is praised, but nobody knows who will wear it.

Nobody knows who will wear out a shoe. The saying is used of other things which take a long time to prepare.<gai>


[TD 36]

176. Bruicheadh an Leódhasaich air a’ bhonnach—a’ suidhe air.

<eng>The Lewisman’s way of cooking the bannock—sitting on it.
(Uist)

When Lewis fishermen were away for part of the day, they used to make a bannock consisting of two slices of oatcakes with a thick layer of cod liver between them. To cook it, they sat on it during the trip.

[Elsewhere, this delicacy was known as <gai>“Bonnach an Taibh”<eng> (“The Ocean Bannock”).]<gai>


177. Bu dual do dh’isean an ròin dol an comhair a thòine do’n chladach.

<eng>A seal pup would by nature go backwards to the shore.

[Cf. N 71, 6.]<gai>


178. Bu lonach an té a chuir a’ cheud chorrag ad bheul.

<eng>She was a forward woman who first put a finger in your mouth.

Said to forward young people. The saying is attributed to the legendary hag who carried Michael Scott to Rome when he was sent to ascertain the date of Shrove Tuesday.

[See Waifs and Strays, i, p. 50; B. K. Wilson, Scottish Folk-tales and Legends, pp. 38 f. The original significance of the saying is not clear.]<gai>


179. Bu mhath an t-saighdearachd mura bith na blàir.

<eng>Soldiering would be good were it not for the battles.<gai>


180. Bu shona dha imrich.

<eng>His journey was a happy one.

Said of the death of an infant. [See no. 665.]<gai>


[TD 37]

181. Buachaille dubh-chasach na h-oidhche, cha d’rinn ’s cha dèan e gleidheil.

<eng>The herd-boy who is dirty-footed at night did not, and will not, keep cattle.

A lazy herd-boy would not trouble himself to have clean feet.<gai>


182. Buaidh air a làimh!

<eng>Success to his hand!
(Uist)

A kind wish.<gai>


183. Buail na cluig bheaga mu’m feuch thu ’n té mhór.

<eng>Ring the little bells before you try the big one.
(Barra)<gai>


184. Buaireas na poite easaich, ruigidh e ’n luath.

<eng>The ferment of the gruel pot will go no farther than the ashes.
(Perthshire)

[Cf. N 45, 9.]<gai>


185. Buidheag mhór na Féill Mhìcheil.

<eng>The big yellow flower of Michaelmas.

A common name for the harvest moon.
[Cf. N 197, 7.]<gai>


186. Buill’ a’ bhroilein air a’ mhaodail.

<eng>The blow of the king’s-hood on the stomach.

Used when two who cannot wound each other disagree.

[Cf. N 377, 5. See Glossary s.v. broilean and maodal.]<gai>


[TD 38]

187. Buille mu seach, buille gun dreach.

<eng>Irregular [oar-] strokes are unsightly [oar-] strokes.

[Sim. RC2, p. 482, with the note, “in rowing”; cf. N 73, 5.]<gai>


188. Buntàta pronn is bainne leò, biadh bodaich na h-Aird.

<eng>Mashed potatoes with milk is the food of the old men of the Aird.

A reference to their meanness.

[For information on the Aird district of Inverness-shire, see TGSI, xlv, pp. 196 f.]<gai>


[TD 39]

C

189. Caidil, a Rìgh! Théid an saoghal mun cuairt.

<eng>Sleep, O King! The world will go round.

Said to self-important people.<gai>


190. Càirdeas is comain is eòlas.

<eng>Relationship, obligation and acquaintance.
(Uist)

The criteria for issuing invitations to funerals.<gai>


191. Càit’ am faighear cuaigean ach a-measg nan cuagach?

<eng>Where is a lame man to be found but among the lame?
(Argyll)<gai>


192. Calldachd na bliadhna leis!

<eng>May the whole year’s loss accompany it!

Words of encouragement when a person loses something.<gai>


193. Calp is innlinn (al. aindeal).

<eng>[Substance and fooder (al. warmth) (?)]

[C. notes this phrase along with no. 155, and translates it “Food and kitchen”. See Glossary s.v. calp, innlinn and aindeal.]<gai>


194. Car mu’n aon rud, mar bha Pàdruig ’s a’ bhó.

<eng>Much about the same, like Patrick and the cow.
(Argyll)

A derisory remark, made when two incongruous things are compared. It is attributed to an “innocent”


[TD 40]

who was thrown into a roadside drain by a cow which he was leading on a rope. When he was asked which was the stronger, himself or the cow, he replied <gai>“Car mu ’n aon rud.”

195. Cath taobh an teine, cath teth teann.

<eng>A fireside fight is a hot, tight battle.
(Argyll)<gai>


196. Cead a choise do’n ghionach lonach ’s mìr ’na bheul.

<eng>Send away the greedy, forward fellow with a morsel in his mouth.
(Perthshire)<gai>


197. Ceallach fada fiar ’s a bheul ’san àird a-deas.

<eng>A long, bent kiln-flue with its mouth towards the south.

[The flue with the best draft. Cf. Carm. Gad., vi, p. 37, s.v. cealach.]<gai>


198. Ceapaire Sàileach—aran tiugh, ìm nas tiugha agus càise nas tiugha na sin.

<eng>A Kintail sandwich—thick bread, thicker butter and cheese thicker than that.<gai>


199. Cearc aoibhinn.

<eng>A happy hen.

Used of a hen lent to rear a brood. The rule is to return the hen with a pullet as payment for the loan.<gai>


200. Ceàrd gun cheàird, an ceàrd as miosa th’ ann.

<eng>A tradesman without a trade is the worst possible tradesman.

There is a pun on the word “ceàrd” which is lost in translation. It can mean “tradesman, tinker, rouge” or “trade, occupation”.<gai>


[TD 41]

201. Ceithir nithean tlachdmhor, leòghann, mialchù, boc-goibhre is rìgh do-chìosnaichte.

<eng>Four attractive things, a lion, a deer-hound, a he-goat and an unconquerable king.<gai>


202. Ceò na Lanna ’s na Léig ort!

<eng>May the mist of Lanno and Lego come upon you!

In Fingalian myth [i.e. MacPherson’s compositions], Lake Lanno in Scandinavia and Lake Lego in Ireland emitted noxious vapours from the infernal regions. See Temora, vii.<gai>


203. Ceò na seana ghealaich, thig cur is cathadh as a dhéidh.

<eng>Mist during the waning of the moon will be followed by snowfall and snowdrift.

[Cf. no. 232.]<gai>


204. Ceud Luain na ràidhe, seall nach fhàg an rath do thigh.

<eng>Be careful that good luck does not leave your house on the first Monday of the quarter.

The first Monday of every quarter of the year was thought to be a day when people with the Evil Eye had everything their own way. This was firmly believed on the Long Island, where no one would have thought of lending anything on that day. The fishermen of Lochfyne would not lend anything on any Monday, although they considered Friday a lucky day on which to begin something.

[Cf. Carm. Gad., iv. p. 151; W. Matheson (ed.). The Blind Harper, pp. 115-6.]<gai>


[TD 42]

205. Ceum air ghàig.

<eng>A step on the hack.

[i.e., an unwilling step. C. gives <gai>“gearradh-feòirnein”<eng> (“grass-blade cut”) as an equivalent of <gai>“gàg”.]


206. Ceum coise coilich air an latha, Latha Nollaige.

<eng>On Christmas Day, the day is longer by a cock’s stride.

Old Christmas—6th January—is meant.

[Cf. BP, no. 83; Carm. Gad., vi, p. 48, s.v. cois-cheum, coilich.)<gai>


207. Ceum na gnàithsiche.

<eng>The land-labourer’s step.
(Uist)

i.e., a steady, heavy step.

[See Glossary s.v. <gai>gnàithseach.]


208. Ceusda-chrann ort!

<eng>May the agony of the Cross be yours!

A malediction. It refers to the agony of Mary when her Son was being crucified.

(Literally, “May you be crucified”. But cf. Carm. Gad., vi, p. 40, s.v. ceus-chrann. See Glossary s.v. ceusda-chrann.]<gai>


209. Cha b’ann air muileacha-màg a chaidh m’àrach.

<eng>I was not brought up on frogs.
(Perthshire)

A saying of defiance.<gai>


[TD 43]

210. Cha b’ann air na sgeirean a dh’ionnsaich na ròin an ceòl.

<eng>The seals did not learn their music on the rocks.
(Uist)

There is a tradition that seals are the descendants of Scandinavian kings under spells—“Clann righ Lochlainn fo gheasaibh”. This explains their love for music.

[See TGSI, xlv, p. 12.]<gai>


211. Cha b’fhad’ a bha bail’ aig Braman.

<eng>Windy-bottom did not have a holding long.

Cf. “A fool and his gear are soon parted”.<gai>


212. Cha bhàthar cuid an fhithich.

<eng>The raven’s share will not be drowned.
(Lochaber)

A reference to death by hanging.<gai>


213. Cha bheò e a bheir dhachaidh iasg a’ chuain.

<eng>There is no one alive who can bring home all the fish in the sea.
(Uist)

i.e., who can do everything.<gai>


214. Cha bhi an àrd no ìosal nach sanntaich sùil an Ilich;
Cha bhi an cùil no cuilbh nach iarr sùil a’ Mhuilich;
Na dh’fhàgas am Muileach, goididh an Collach;
Is mairg a dh’earbas a chuid ris a’ chealgair Bharrach;
Ach bheir an Tirisdeach rudhadh-gruaidhe air muinntir Iutharna.

<eng>There is nothing high or low which is not coveted by an Islay man’s eye; there is nothing in a corner or a store which is not sought by a Mull man’s eye; a Coll man will steal what a Mull man leaves behind; pity the poor person who entrusts his goods to a


[TD 44]

deceitful Barra man; but the Tiree man gives the inhabitants of Hell a red face.
(Uist)

[Cf. N 110, 5; The Active Gael, pp. 68 f.]<gai>


215. Cha bhi cuimhn’ air an aran ach a réir fad an sgòrnain.

<eng>Bread is remembered only as long as it stays in the gullet.

i.e. while it is being eaten.

[Cf. N 383, 1; RC2, p. 487.]<gai>


216. Cha bhi faiteachan treubhach.

<eng>A timid person will not be brave.
(Uist)

[Cf. N 84, 6.]<gai>


217. Cha bhi gun bhean ach fear gun mhisneach, ’s cha bhi esan ann.

<eng>Only a man without courage will be without a wife, and there will be no such man.

[The last part of the saying is deliberately ambiguous.]<gai>


218. Cha bhruith ubh ach òinseach.

<eng>Only a foolish woman can boil an egg.

Perhaps this means that boiling an egg is largely a matter of chance.<gai>


219. Cha bhuannaich cearc na h-aona chois móran le sgrìobadh.

<eng>A one-legged hen will not gain much by scraping.
(Uist)<gai>


[TD 45]

220. Cha bu mhath leam cogadh riut; tha do mhala dlùth do d’shùil.

<eng>I would not like to fight with you; your brow is close to your eye.
(Uist)<gai>


221. Cha chaith na feannagan thu am bliadhna.

<eng>The crows will not devour you this year.

Said to a person in good condition.<gai>


222. Cha chomain duit sin, mar a thuirt an eireag ris an speireig (al. ris an t-seobhaig).

<eng>That’s no favour from you, as the pullet said to the sparrow-hawk (al. to the hawk).
(Uist)

A legend states that a sparrow-hawk went out one morning to look for its breakfast, and met a chicken. “How glad I am to meet you!” said the hawk. “That’s no favour from you,” said the chicken.<gai>


223. Cha chomain nan cailleach comain gun cheannach.

<eng>Old wives’ good-will must be purchased.

i.e., they have to be given something in exchange for their good-will.<gai>


224. Cha chomunn ach a-nunn ’s a-nall.

<eng>It’s no steady relationship, but an unstable one.<gai>


225. Cha chual’ thu riamh ach fuaim tuinne ’s glog geòidh.

<eng>You have never heard anything except the sound of a wave and the honk of a goose.
(Uist)

i.e., you have seen very little of the outside world. Cf. the rhyme:<gai>


[TD 46]

Ann an Caolas ud Odrum
Far an coidleadh na ròin,
Far nach cluinnte guth duine
Ach fuaim tuinne ’s glog geòidh.

<eng>In the Sound of Odrum over yonder, where the seals would sleep, and where no human voice could be heard—only the sound of a wave and the honk of a goose.<gai>


226. Cha chuir Alasdair nì math ás a dhéidh; tha gach math air thoiseach air.

<eng>Alasdair does not ascribe every good thing to the past; every good thing lies in front of him.
(Perthshire)

[Presumably this is used of a person who is optimistic about the future.]<gai>


227. Cha chuir cìs no ceannach uallach air cridhe an leanaibh.

<eng>Neither tax nor commerce burden the mind of a child.

Attributed to John MacCodrum.

[For more sayings attributed to MacCodrum, see W. Matheson (ed.), The Songs of John MacCodrum, pp. 204 f.]<gai>


228. Cha chuir e dheth a bhreacan gus an téid e laighe.

<eng>He’ll not put off his plaid till he goes to bed.

i.e., until he dies. Said of a person who continues to work to old age.<gai>


229. Cha dèan cuthag sagart.

<eng>A cuckoo will not become a priest.
(Barra)<gai>


230. Cha dèan feadaireachd tobhar (al. buain mòna).

<eng>Whistling will not gather manure (al., cut peat).
(Uist)<gai>


[TD 47]

231 Cha dèan òr na Spàinnte an duine sanntach òirdheirc.

<eng>All the gold of Spain will not ennoble a covetous man.<gai>


232. Cha d’fhàg ceò seann soluis pathadh riamh air solus ùr.

<eng>Mist with the waning moon never left the new moon without rain.
(Inverness district)

[Cf. no. 203.]<gai>


233. Cha d’fhàg thu lub an dúnain riamh.

<eng>You have never left the dung-hill pond.

[Cf. no. 225.]<gai>


234. Cha d’fhàs iasgair riaraichte air criomadh ’s air sgobadh.

<eng>No fisherman was ever satisfied with biting and nibbling.<gai>


235. Cha d’fhuair mi na chuireadh neul bhàrr cait.

<eng>I didn’t get enough to revive a cat in a faint.

[Presumably said of a bad day’s fishing.]<gai>


236. Cha dilleachdan dilleachdan a bheir aoidh do’n choigreach.

<eng>The orphan who show hospitality to a stranger is no orphan.<gai>


237. Cha do chòrd Catach is Caoidheach riamh.

<eng>A Sutherland man and a Reay man never agreed.<gai>


238. Cha do dhiùlt uaigh riamh, cruaidh ’s gum biodh an reodhadh.

<eng>A grave never refused, however hard the frost.<gai>


[TD 48]

239. Cha do dhragh thu an roibean aige.

<eng>You have not pulled his whisker.
(Uist)

i.e., you have not tested his nature.<gai>


240. Cha do mharbhadh duine riamh am Blàr Theab.

<eng>No one was ever killed in the Almost Battle.<gai>


241. Cha do rinn mort riamh nach do rinn mort eile.

<eng>No one ever committed one murder without committing another.

This implies that a murderer is guilty of two deaths, that of the victim and that of his own soul.<gai>


242. Cha do rinn osna riamh nach do thuit boinne fala ’na chridhe.

<eng>No one ever sighed without a drop of blood falling down in his heart.<gai>


243. Cha do sheall mi cho ìosal.

<eng>I didn’t look so low
(Uist)

The derisive answer given by a Uist woman who visited Glasgow, when she was asked if she saw the steeple of the city’s High Kirk.<gai>


244. Cha do thill gearan lagh riamh.

<eng>Fault-finding never abrogated the law.<gai>


245. Cha do thionndaidh thu ’n taobh ascaoin dheth.

<eng>You have not turned over his rough side.

[i.e. you do not know the unpleasant side of his character.]<gai>


[TD 49]

246. Cha do thuig thu dol a bhuain do Mhugstat.

<eng>You didn’t understand what it was like to go to reap in Monkstat.

Evidently reapers were not allowed to idle their time there.

[Monkstat is the name of a large holding in the Duntulm district of Skye. See A. Nicolson. Handbook to the Isle of Skye, pp. 25-6.]<gai>


247. Cha do thuig neach riamh grunnd Sgiathanaich (al. Cha d’fhuair duine riamh a-mach...).

<eng>No one ever understood the intention of a Skyeman (al. No one ever found out...).
(Uist)<gai>


248. Cha dubhairt “Ma thogair” ach am fìor ghlag.

<eng>Only a complete fool ever said “I don’t care”.
(Argyll)<gai>


249. Cha duine tàillear,
’S cha duine dhà dhiubh;
’S ann chuireadh fitheach thar creige
Dà fhichead ’s a dhà dhiubh.

<eng>A tailor is not a man, and two tailors do not amount to a man; a raven could throw two score and two of them over a cliff.

[Cf. W. Matheson (ed), The Songs of John MacCodrum, p. 270.]<gai>


250. Cha fhreagair casag Chaluim-Chille do’n h-uile fear.

<eng>St Columba’s robe will not fit every man.

[Cf. N 131, 1.]<gai>


251. Cha ghlan an Cuan an Iar làmh dhearg a’ mhurtair.

<eng>The Atlantic Ocean will not clean the red hand of the murderer.
(Uist)<gai>


[TD 50]

252. Cha mhair a’ choinneal ás a dà cheann.

<eng>The candle will not last when lit at both ends.<gai>


253. Cha mhisde tigh “Moderat” a bhith ann.

<eng>A house is none the worse for having a “Moderate” in it.
(Uist)

This is a saying from the Secession of 1843. It is said that all members of a household at Paible seceded from the Church of Scotland except one young man. One Sunday when he stayed at home while the others went to church, the cows got loose and harm would have been done had he not been there.

[C. notes that “the term ‘Moderate’ was applied to one who did not secede from the Church of Scotland.” But it originated much earlier than 1843, and was usually applied to a non-Evangelical minister. See A. L. Drummond and J. Bulloch, The Scottish Church, 1688-1843, pp. 64 f.]<gai>


254. Cha nigheadh siabann i.

<eng>Soap would not wash her.
(Uist)

Said of a slut.<gai>


255. Cha phàigh am feamanadh am feurach.

<eng>The manure will not pay for the grazing.
(Uist)

[i.e., the manuring done by cattle while grazing. Cf. N 337, 3.]<gai>


256. Cha phòs Mór leatha fhéin.

<eng>Marion cannot marry on her own.
(Uist)

Used of actions which require more than one person.<gai>


[TD 51]

257. Cha reic e a dhail-bhuntàta air a tarsuinn.

<eng>He will not sell his potato-field sideways.
[i.e., in such a way that the buyer can see the gaps in the rows. See Dw. s.v. dail-bhuntàta, where the saying is explained.]<gai>


258. Cha robh an Giblin riamh gun chòta geal.

<eng>April was never without a white coat (of snow).
(Perthshire)

[C. notes that the “Giblin” comprises the second half of April and the first half of May.]<gai>


259. Cha robh ceàrd riamh de shìol Leòid.

<eng>There was never a tinker of the MacLeod race.<gai>


260. Cha robh céilidheach nach robh mearachdach.

<eng>There was never a gossiper who was reliable.

[Cf. RC2, p. 486; M, no. 128.]<gai>


261. Cha robh eangarra nach robh trioblaideach.

<eng>There was never a bad-tempered person who didn’t give trouble.
(Uist)<gai>


262. Cha robh fichead duin’ air mhisg air tìodhlac do sheanar.

<eng>There weren’t twenty drunk men at your grandfather’s funeral.
(Skye)

The climax of a tounging-match between two Skye men. Funerals in former times were occasions for indulging to excess, as this was looked upon as honour to the dead.<gai>


263. Cha robh gill’ a’ Chrochadair riamh ’na thàmh.

<eng>The Devil’s servant was never idle.<gai>


[TD 52]

264. Cha robh Inid riamh gun fhàs no Càisg gun earra-dhubh.

<eng>Shrove-tide never occurred without a waxing moon nor Easter without a waning moon.

Shrove Tuesday is “the first Tuesday after the first new moon of Spring” and must therefore fall within a fortnight of the date of the new moon, i.e., within the waxing period. Easter Sunday is the sixth Sunday thereafter, so that it must occur during a waning period of the moon.<gai>


265. Cha robh mi riamh an tigh Putain.

<eng>I was never in Button’s house.
(Uist)

i.e., in contemptible company. Alternatively, <gai>“an tigh Lubain”<eng> (“in Puddle’s house”—Lismore) and <gai>“an tigh Lod”<eng> (“in Swill’s house”—Skye).<gai>


266. Cha robh ruidhle riamh am Borroraidh.

<eng>There was never a reel in Borreray.

Borreray was the name of the farm given by MacLeod of Dunvegan to his hereditary piper, MacCrimmon. In the College of Pipers, the music taught consisted of Ceòl Mór, or pìobaireachd, the classical music of the pipe, and never of Ceòl Beag, the music of marching and dancing.<gai>


267. Cha robh seotach nach robh bradach.

<eng>There was never a lazy person who wasn’t a thief.<gai>


268. Cha robh sòlas riamh gun bhròn,
Cha robh Dùbhlachd riamh gun sgòth;
Cha robh òigridh riamh gun cheòl,
Cha robh òigh le deòin gun fhear.

<eng>There was never joy without sorrow; there was never a December without cloud; young people were never


[TD 53]

without music; a maiden was never willingly without a lover.

[Cf. N 126, 3; Carm. Gad., vi, p. 14, s.v. beulaiche.]<gai>


269. Cha robh trom nach robh tairbheach,
Ach Clachan is daoine marbha.

<eng>Nothing was heavy without being productive, except stones and dead men.

[“Trom” can also mean “pregnant”. The pun is lost in translation.]<gai>


270. Cha shluagh duine ’na aonar.

<eng>A man on his own is not a multitude.

[Sim. RC2, p. 486; cf. N 101, 7.]<gai>


271. Cha tàinig bho’n chat nach d’rinn mialaich.

<eng>A cat never had offspring that did not mew.
(Uist)<gai>


272: Cha teic olcas an droch ionnsaigh.

<eng>The evil of a vicious attack is no small matter [?]

[See Glossary s.v. teic.]<gai>


273. Cha téid muinntir nan Tòrr a dh’iasgach gus an toir na cait air tìr sgadan.

<eng>The people of Torrin will not go to fish until the cats bring herring ashore.

Torrin is an agricultural, not a fishing, village in the Broadford district of Skye.<gai>


274. Cha téid uaill an aghaidh na tairbhe.

<eng>Pride will not oppose profit.
(Uist)

This saying is used when a well-off person is found doing something which might be considered beneath him, but which is profitable to him.
[But cf. N 361, 3.]<gai>


[TD 54]

275. Cha tilg neach smugaid ’na phlangaid fhéin.

<eng>No one spits in his own blanket.
(Uist)

Used when a person overlooks a fault in his own family which he would not overlook in other people.<gai>


276. Cha tilleadh dòrn air pòig.

<eng>A blow with the fist is no return for a kiss.<gai>


277. Cha togadh e an salann bhàrr a’ chlàir.

<eng>He could not lift salt off the table.

Said of a bashful person.<gai>


278. Cha toir beannachadh nach fhaigh air ais.

<eng>No one gives a blessing without getting it back.<gai>


279. Cha toir maor no ministear a-nuas an rud nach eil shuas.

<eng>Neither bailiff nor minister can bring down what isn’t up.

i.e., what doesn’t exist.

[Cf. N 130, 5; GP, p. 53, no. 8.]<gai>


280. Cha toirear as an òr ach fheumalachd.

<eng>Nothing can be got from gold but its usefulness.

i.e., What it can buy.<gai>


281. Cha tug coilchionn gort riamh do dh’Uibhist.

<eng>Dwarf-corn never caused a famine in Uist.

When the season was dry, corn was stunted on the sandy machairs of Uist. It had to be pulled up by the roots, and was then given to cattle, seed and stall together, resulting in better fed and higher priced animals.

[Cf. Fr. Allan, p. 76, s.v. coilchean.]<gai>


[TD 55]

282. Cha tug thu Hiort a-mach ann an gucag-uibhe.

<eng>You did not reach St Kilda in an egg-shell.
(Argyll)

This refers to the belief that witches sailed from one place to another in empty egg-shells. It is therefore a denial of any fairy or witch powers to a person.<gai>


283. Cha tuig a’ bhan-Leódhasach a’ chreach gus an tig i chun an doruis.

<eng>A Lewis woman will not understand that there is a foray until it reaches her door.

Women would be unwilling to leave their goods until compelled by necessity.<gai>


284. Chaidh a’ chùis ’na taois.

<eng>The matter became dough.

i.e., it could not support itself.<gai>


285. Chaidh an fhòghlum os cionn MhicCruimein.

<eng>The skill surpassed MacCrimmon.

This refers to the completion of the unfinished pipetune <gai>“Lasan Phàdruig Chaogaich”<eng> by John MacKay, <gai>“Am Pìobaire Dall”<eng> (“The Blind Piper”), while under the tuition of MacCrimmon at Borreraig.

[See TGSI, xlv, p. 5; J. Mackenzie (ed.) Sar-Obair nam Bard Gaelach, pp. 104 f.]<gai>


286. Chaidh “Theab” le creig is theab nach deachaidh,
Is bhàthadh “Shaoil leam” ged nach do shaoil cuid e;
Ach nam biodh “B’fheàrr leam” beò, cha bhiodh ceann air colainn.

<eng>“Almost” fell over a cliff, and almost didn’t; and “I thought” was drowned, although some didn’t think so;


[TD 56]

but if “I’d rather” were alive, there wouldn’t be a head left on a body.
(Uist)

A reprimand to children who make excuses.<gai>


287. Chaill i a spiligean-mullaich.

<eng>She lost her top grain
(Argyll)

i.e., her good name. On Hallowe’en or New Year’s Night, it was considered unlucky for a girl to pull a straw from a stack or sheaf and find the top grain missing.<gai>


288. Chan aiteamh ach aiteamh bho’n tuath, ’s cha chur buan ach bho’n deas.

<eng>No thaw lasts except one from the north and no snowfall lasts except one from the south. (Uist)

[Cf. N 122, 3; BP, no. 59.]<gai>


289. “Chan ann air mo shon fhéin a tha mi ’ga ràdh, ach tha blàr math airson ghiadh ’sa bhail’ ud thall,” ars’ am madadh-ruadh.

<eng>“It’s not for my own benefit that I say so, but there is good grazing for geese in the farm over there,” said the fox.
(Uist)<gai>


290. Chan ann gun chomain a nigheas Staonag màs Ciotaig.

<eng>It is not for nothing that Silly washes Sinister’s bottom.

Used when two rogues support each other.<gai>


291. Chan e a h-uile fear a gheibh nighean Fear Bheàrnaraidh.

<eng>Not everyone will get the Laird of Bernera’s daughter.


[TD 57]

The minister of Bernera used to ask the bridegroom as part of the marriage ceremony, <gai>“An i so do roghainn de mhnathan an t-saoghail?”<eng> (“Is this your choice of all the women in the world?”). On one occasion he received the unexpected reply, <gai>“Air m’ anam chan i! Nam faighinn nighean Fear Bheàrnaraidh, a bheil sibh an dùil gur i ’n luideag sheargte so a bhiodh ri m’thaobh?”<eng> (“No, indeed! If I could get the Laird of Bernera’s daughter, do you think that this faded slip would be at my side?”). The minister replied as above.<gai>


292. Chan e do leannan ach am fear nach pòs thu.

<eng>He is not your lover but the one you will not marry.
(Uist)<gai>


293. Chan e innean a’ ghobha a tha agad fodha.

<eng>You haven’t got the blacksmith’s anvil under it.

i.e., deal gently.<gai>


294. Chan e nach tig sìd mhath, ach an droch dhuine nach fhuirich ris.

<eng>It is not that good weather will not come, but that the bad man will not wait for it.
(Perthshire)<gai>


295. Chan eil ach trì seachdainnean eadar an droch agus an deagh bhearradair.

<eng>There are only three weeks between the good and the bad barber.

i.e., in three weeks hair will grow so as to hide inferior workmanship.<gai>


[TD 58]

296. Chan eil aig duine sona ach a bhreith; tha aig duine dona a bhreith is àrach.

<eng>A fortunate man only to be born; an unlucky man needs to be born and brought up.
(Uist)

[Cf. N 111, 2; 112, 11.]<gai>


297. Chan eil air a’ chruadal ach cruadhachadh ris.

<eng>The only remedy for hardship is to harden to it.<gai>


298. Chan eil air a’ chruaidh ghort ach an cruaidh chosnadh.

<eng>The only remedy for dire poverty is hard work.<gai>


299. Chan eil an dubhan dearg asad fhathast.

<eng>The red-hot hook is not out of you yet.

Said when a person incurs the continuing resentment of another.<gai>


300. Chan eil an Loch-nam-madadh ach Beurl’ is acras.

<eng>There is nothing in Lochmaddy but English and hunger.<gai>


301. Chan eil ann ach Dòmhnall dha fhéin.

<eng>There’s nothing for it but Donald for himself.

i.e., everyone for himself.

[Cf. N 169, 8.]<gai>


302. Chan eil ann nas miosa na sìolman.

<eng>There is nothing worse then corn refuse.<gai>
[Cf. N 112, 9.]

303. Chan eil cluas-chiùil aig triùbhair.

<eng>A scoundrel has no ear for music.<gai>


[TD 59]

304. Chan eil coimheachas ’sa bhiadh mura bheil e ’sna daoine.

<eng>The food is not stand-offish, unless the people are.
(Argyll)

A kind invitation to take food.<gai>


305. Chan eil comain agad orm; cha toigh leamsa thu.

<eng>You have no favour to claim from me; I don’t like you.
(Benderloch)

Some young men in Benderloch once tried to frighten an old man named Eóghann Mór (“Big Hugh”). One of them, dressed in a white sheet, met the old man as he passed Bailenaodain graveyard after dark. He laid his hand on Eóghann’s shoulder and said in a ghostly voice, <gai>“Eóghainn Mhóir, cha toigh leam thu” (“Eóghann Mór,<eng> I don’t like you”), to which Eóghann replied as above.<gai>


306. Chan eil cumha coltach ris a’ chumha fhalamh.

<eng>There is no lament like the lament of poverty.<gai>


307. Chan eil deaghad air an éiginn.

<eng>Poverty cannot be changed for the better.
(Uist)<gai>


308. Chan eil dìon ann an sgroth nan Caimbeulach.

<eng>The Campbells’ roof-turf is not waterproof.

[There is a pun on “dìon”, which can also mean “protection”. The saying can equally well be translated: “The Campbells’ roof-turf will not keep you safe”, i.e., they are not to be trusted]<gai>


309. Chan eil e cho marbhtach ’s a tha e cho maoidheach.

<eng>He’s not as deadly as his threats suggest.

[Sim. RC2, p. 485.]<gai>


[TD 60]

310. Chan eil fhios ciod a bhiodh math do cheann carrach.

<eng>No one knows what would be good for a scabby head.
(Uist)

Said of a person with an incorrigible fault.

[A Tiree variant adds <gai>“—fuachd no teas”<eng> (“cold or heat”).

[Cf. N 73, 4; 199, 8; 161, 9; 252, 3.]<gai>


311. Chan eil neach gun “mura bhith.”

<eng>There is no one without a “were it not”.

i.e., no one is without regrets.<gai>


312. Chan eil teud am chlàrsaich.

<eng>There isn’t a string in my harp.

i.e., I am helpless.<gai>


313. Chan eil tùr ann na shaodaicheadh an cat bho’n uachdar.

<eng>He hasn’t got enough sense to drive the cat from the cream.
(Stratherrick)<gai>


314. Chan fhacas a leithid bho’n a rug an reithe an t-uan ann an Scalpaidh.

<eng>The like has not been seen since the ram gave birth to the lamb in Scalpay.

A hint to one who is not telling the truth.<gai>


315. Chan fhacas clobha math riamh ann an tigh a’ ghobha.

<eng>A good pair of tongs was never seen in the blacksmith’s house.
(Uist)

[Cf. BP, no. 64.]<gai>


[TD 61]

316. Chan fhaiceadh duin’ air muin eich e agus e a’ teitheadh le bheatha.

<eng>A man on horseback fleeing for his life could not see it.<gai>


317. Chan fhaicear daorach air ’s chan fhaicear aodach air.

<eng>He is never seen drunk and he is never seen well-clad.
(Uist)

Said of one who is not a spendthrift, but who is never out of difficulties.<gai>


318. Chan fhaigh thu bàs leis a’ chaoil am bliadhna.

<eng>You will not die from emaciation this year.

Said of a stout person.<gai>


319. Chan fhalaich muir no tìr an eucoir (al. cionta).

<eng>Neither sea nor land will hide injustice (al. guilt).<gai>


320. Chan fheàrr an Gille Sear na’n Gille Siar—is breacriabhach le chéil’ iad.

<eng>The East lad is no better than the West lad—they are both drab and speckled.

A Hebridean saying regarding the wind, which may bring dry or wet weather from either direction.

[Cf. N 118, 3.]<gai>


321. Chan fhiach a bhith a’ dèanamh dà Fhéill Màrtainn dheth.

<eng>It is not worth while making it last two Martinmasses.

i.e., it is best to finish a piece of work at one go.

[Cf. N 118, 10.]<gai>


322. Chan fhìrinn fìrinn na feirge.

<eng>Truth spoken in anger is not truth.<gai>


[TD 62]

323. Chan fhóghnadh dhi a crathadh no a cnìodadh.

<eng>Neither shaking not stroking would satisfy her.<gai>


324. Chan ionann cearc-fraoich a mharbhadh agus béiceadh rithe.

<eng>Killing a grouse is not the same thing as bowing to it.
(Uist)<gai>


325 Chan urrainn do’n t-sionnach fhéin a bhith ruith daonnan, daonnan.

<eng>Even the fox itself cannot always keep running.
(Kintyre)

A protest made by a pupil when a teacher set him a tedious task and rebuked him for inattention.

[Cf. N 104, 4.]<gai>


326. Chì mi, chì mi fad air fàire,
Thar bhàrr na roide ruaidh,
Am mac a’ tighinn o’n mhàthair,
’S a’ mhàthair a’ tighinn bhuaith.

<eng>I see, I see on the far horizon, over the russet bog-myrtle, a son being born of a mother, and a mother being born of him.

A riddle to which the answer is “day and night”.

[Cf. Carm. Gad., ii, p. 276, s.v. fà.]<gai>


327. Chìthear sin ann an aodann a’ chait.

<eng>That will be seen in the cat’s face.
(Uist)

i.e., the weather will be obvious to all.

[Cf. N 361, 11.]


328. Cho bradach ri radan.

<eng>As thievish as a rat.<gai>


[TD 63]

329. Cho caoin ri clag-sìth.

<eng>As melodious as a fairy bell.

[See Glossary s.v. clag-sith.]<gai>


330. Cho cearbach ris a’ chuileig a chaidh ann am bainne Iain Mhic Fhearchair.

<eng>As clumsy as the fly which went into John MacCodrum’s milk.
(N. Uist)

John MacCodrum, the Uist bard, was once given some bread and milk in a farm-house. A fly landed on the milk and the bard took advantage of this to draw attention to the meagre amount he had been given, with the words, <gai>“Tubaist ort, a chreutair leibidich, a’ dol ’gad bhàthadh far am faodadh tu grunnachadh.”<eng> (“Confound you, you clumsy creature, going to drown where you could wade.”)

[Cf. Dw. s.v. cearbach.]<gai>


331. Cho ceòlmhor ris a’ bhoin a dh’ith am pìobaire.

<eng>As musical as the cow which ate the piper.

[This motif is international. See Stith Thompson, Motif-index of Folk Literature, iv, p. 161, J 1815, Getting Rid of Man-eating Calf. A version in which a piper fleeing home after Culloden is supposedly eaten by a cow has been recorded several times in Gaelic Scotland. For a summary of the salient features of the Irish versions, see O Suilleabhain and Christiansen, The Types of the Irish Folktale, pp. 228-9.]<gai>


332. Cho coimheach ri fithich Heisger.

<eng>As stand-offish as the ravens of Heisker.

The natives of Heisker were nick-named “ravens” because they were said to be jealous of strangers.<gai>


[TD 64]

333. Cho còir ri faoileag.

<eng>As good-hearted as a gull.

Doubtless ironic. The seagull is the most resentful bird on the shore.<gai>


334. Cho dorcha ri maodal a’ mhairt dhuinn.

<eng>As dark as the brown cow’s stomach.<gai>


335. Cho dubh ri maide-gradanaidh.

<eng>As black as a stick for parching grain.

[See Glossary s.v. maide-gradanaidh.]<gai>


336. Cho dubh ris an oidhche.

<eng>As black as night.<gai>


337. Cho eòlach air sradan ri cù a’ ghobha.

<eng>As familiar with sparks as the smith’s dog.

Used when a person becomes so familiar with something that he pays no attention to it.<gai>


338. Cho eòlach ’s a tha gobhar ministeir air ceòl (al. seinn).

<eng>As familiar (with something) as a minister’s goat is with music (al. singing).
(Argyll)<gai>


339. Cho fad’s a bhios sruth ’san t-Sròm, bidh car anns a’ Charannach.

<eng>A long as water flows at Strome, there will be a twist in the Lochcarron man.<gai>
[See no. 58.]


[TD 65]

340. Cho faoilidh ri cat air sneachd.

<eng>As delicately careful as a cat (walking) on snow.

[C. seems to take “faoilidh” as a variant of “fàilidh” (“gentle, careful”), but Mr Kenneth MacDonald informs me that in Wester Ross “faoilidh” means “exposed, wind-swept”, and that this may well be its meaning here.]<gai>


341. Cho furachail ri sùil guilbnich.

<eng>As watchful as a curlew’s eye.

[Cf. N 286, 4.]<gai>


342. Cho geal ri coinneil-chéir.

<eng>As white as a wax candle.
(Uist)<gai>


343. Cho geur ri minidh ’Ic Eachainn—chaidh e troimh shé filleachan de leathar-bhonn agus leth-chorrag ann an tòin an rìgh.

<eng>As sharp as MacEachern’s awl—it went through six folds of shoe-leather and half a finger-length into the king’s bottom.
(Argyll)<gai>


344. Cho glan rí iomaideil.

<eng>As clean as a covering-skin.

[See TGSI, xlv, p. 7; Glossary s.v. iomaideal.]<gai>


345. Cho glan ris an t-solus-ghréine.

<eng>As pure as sunlight.
(Uist)<gai>


346. Cho gòrach ris na Croisean-Moire.

<eng>As silly as the Virgin’s crosses.
(Uist).

[See Glossary s.v. Croisean-Moire.]<gai>


[TD 66]

347. Cho grad ri feòraig-Chéitein.

<eng>As swift as a May squirrel.

[Cf. Dw. s.v. feòrag.]<gai>


348. Cho leathann ri ròn, tòn air dà thigh.

<eng>A backside (fed) in two houses is as fat as a seal.
(Uist)

Used of a person who eats in a friend’s house as well as in his own.<gai>


349. Cho leòmach ri dà-bhliadhnach cait.

<eng>As conceited as a two-year-old cat.<gai>


350. Cho leòmach ris an aon fhaoileig air taobh Chaol-Muile.

<eng>As conceited as the only gull by the side of the Sound of Mull.

An allusion to the scarcity of shellfish etc. on the Sound of Mull. The usual food of seagulls is so scarce that only one can survive, [and it has consequently little of which to be proud.]<gai>


351. Cho luath ris na gathan-dubha.

<eng>As swift as the storm-riders.

[Cf. N 142, 5. See Glossary s.v. gathan-dubha.]<gai>


352. Cho math dheth ri mart-làmhaig.

<eng>As well off as a fattening cow.
(Uist)<gai>


353. Cho measail air ’s a tha an Leòdach air a’ chat.

<eng>As fond of it as a MacLeod is of a cat.

i.e., not at all fond of it. It is said that a cat once killed a man named MacLeod. Since then MacLeods are supposed to dislike cats.<gai>


[TD 67]

354. Cho sean ri bratach nan Abrach.

<eng>As ancient as the banner of the Abrach MacKays.
(Strathnaver)

Iain Abrach (“John of Lochaber”) settled in the north near Tongue, and he became the progenitor of the sept known as the Abrach MacKays. “Leabaidh Iain Abraich” (“John of Lochaber’s Bed”), where he is said to have hidden in times of danger, is near Castle Varrich. His flag, bearing the motto “Bi Treun” (“Be Valiant”) is said to be in the possession of some of his descendants.

[See M. O. MacDougall, The Clan MacKay, p. 8.]<gai>


355. Cho sona ri caibheannach ann an sruth.

<eng>As happy as a little trout in a stream.
(Skye)<gai>


356. Cho sona ri radan ann am muileann.

<eng>As happy as a rat in a mill.<gai>


357.Cho tiamhaidh ri gaoir a’ Chuain-an-iar.

<eng>As mournful as the cry of the Atlantic.
(Uist)<gai>


358. Cho tioram ris an t-sreathainn.

<eng>As dry as kiln-straw.<gai>


359. Cho tiugh ri peasair am poc.

<eng>As thick as peas in a poke.
[Sim. RC2, p. 488.]<gai>


360. Chuir e’n car geal dheth.

<eng>He turned up his white side.

i.e., he died. The saying refers to spent fish, which float on their backs and show their white bellies.<gai>


[TD 68]

361. Chuireadh e na ceithir-goid-fhichead air an t-srathair-mheuraich.

<eng>He could fasten the twenty-four thongs to the fingered pack-saddle.

[Said of a very dexterous person. See Glossary s.v. srathair-mheurach.]<gai>


362. Chunnaic e liath-chearc an raoir.

<eng>He saw a heath-hen last night.

[Said of a person who looks pale and worried. The heath-hen was thought to be a bird of ill-omen. (Dw. s.v. liath-chearc.)]<gai>


363. Chunnaic mi mo chall ’s cha sin e.

<eng>I saw what I lost and that doesn’t resemble it.

[Presumably said of a substantial loss.]<gai>


364. Chunnaic mise fear, a chuala fear a chunnaic fear a bha ’g ràdh gum fac’ e fear a chunnaic an rìgh.

<eng>I saw one who heard one who saw another who said that he saw one who saw the king.

Hearsay evidence.<gai>


365. Ciall bà buachaille.

<eng>The sense of a herdsman’s cow.

If the herdsman has no sense, the cow is allowed to do as it pleases. Applied to a child who lacks sense through careless supervision or training.<gai>


366. Cill-ma-ruibhe air sgéith a’ chuain,
Camus-fhionnairidh fhuar nam beann,
Ròbastan a’ choirce ghlais,
Leam a b’ionmhuinn a bhith ann.


[TD 69]

<eng>Kilmaree on the wing of the bay, cold Camusiunary among the hills, Robastan of the unripe corn—I would love to be there.

A Skye sailor obtained lodgings from a housewife in New York while his ship was in dock. When she heard where he came from, she spoke this verse. The places mentioned are in the Strathaird district of Skye.

[See A. Nicolson, Handbook to the Isle of Skye, p. 67.]<gai>


367. Ciod eile, chait, ach feòil?

<eng>What else do you want, cat, except meat?
(Uist)

Said of ambitious people who cannot get what they want.<gai>


368. Ciod e iongantas an t-saoghail? Maoin; thig math is olc ás.

<eng>What is the greatest wonder of the world? Wealth; good and evil result from it.
(Uist)<gai>


369. Cion nan tuathanach, milleadh nan uachdaran.

<eng>What ruins landlords is a lack of farmers.

[There may be a pun on “cion”, which can mean “poverty”, so that the saying could be translated “What ruins landlords is the poverty of farmers”.]<gai>


370. Ciùin ris a’ bhó, garg ris an each.

<eng>Gentle with the cow, stem with the horse.
(Uist)

i.e., in the way of training and treatment.<gai>


371. Clach-chuimhneachain Rùdhraig.

<eng>Ruric’s memorial-stone.

[From loose sheets within covers of MS. No explanation is given. This may be a reference to a large


[TD 70]

boulder on the shore-line just below Appin House. It is said to have been rolled down the hillside against a tone of marauding Norsemen, led by a man called Ruric, who was killed by it. See TGSI, xlviii, pp. 502-3.]<gai>


372. Cleas Bean Lamont, is co math leam a bhith as easbuidh.

<eng>Like Lamont’s wife, I’d be as well without it.
(Easter Ross)

A certain Mr Flyter was the Free Church minister in Roskeen. One day he met Mrs Lamont from an outlying part of his parish and invited her to be catechised saying, <gai>“Chan eil air beathaichibh fiadhaich mar tha thusa ach an glacadh mar a dh’fhaodas sinn. Ciod i a’ Ghairm Eifeachdach?”<eng> (“Wild animals like you must be caught when possible. What is the Effectual Calling?”). <gai>“O canaibh fhéin e, a Mhaighstir Flyter,”<eng> she replied, <gai>“’s ann duibh as fheàrr a thig e na dhòmhs’.”<eng> (“O repeat it yourself, Mr Flyter, it suits you better than me.”). <gai>“Cha dèan sin feum; imiridh tu a ràdh.”<eng> (“That will not do; you must repeat it.”) <gai>“O, is co math leam a bhith as easbhuidh.”<eng> (“O, I’d be as well without it.”)<gai>


373. Cleas luchd-cladhaich na gainneimh, a’ fuireach gu latha.

<eng>Like the sand-diggers, waiting until day.
(Uist)

According to legend, a man went to the ford to lift some sand. As he stayed longer than he needed, another man went to see what kept him. The second man did not return, and one man after another went until six had gone and not one had come back. It was thought that all had been put under a spell and had to await the time of their release.<gai>


[TD 71]

374. Cleas na corrònta, a’ magadh a h-uile eun ’san ealtainn.

<eng>Like the black-tailed crane, mocking every bird in the flock.
(Uist)

Applied to sneering people.

[See Glossary s.v. corrònta.]<gai>


375. Cleas na h-uiseig’, sguiridh i sheinn nuair a ruigeas i a nead.

<eng>Like the lark, which ceases to sing when it reaches its nest.<gai>


376. Cleas nam Baoghlach, an obair nach dèan sinn an diugh, nì sinn am màireach.

<eng>Like the Benbecula people—the work we don’t do today, we’ll do tomorrow.
(Uist)

[Cf. nos. 136, 733.]<gai>


377. Cloinn an t-Saoir o thaobh Chruachain
Do’m bu dual a bhith treun,
Ged a chaill iad a’ chòir
Bh’aig an seòrs’ ann an Sléibht.

<eng>The MacIntyres from the side of Cruachan who are brave by nature, though they lost the right which their kin had in Sleat.

[Cf. the concluding stanza of Ailean Dall MacDougall’s “Oran do Mhac ’Ic Alasdair Ghlinne-Garaidh in John Mackenzie (ed.), Sar-Obair nam Bard Gaelach, p. 327.]<gai>


378. Cloinn Chaluim, sliochd nan trì-fichead burraidh dhòirt am fuil aig Achadh-bheann.

<eng>The MacCallums—the descendants of the Sixty fools who spilled their blood at Achavean.


[TD 72]

Two brothers named MacCallum lived by the side of Loch Awe. Finding that the land was too small for both of them, one went south to Kintyre. Many years later they decided to visit one another, each setting out about the same time, the one going south and the other coming north. They had thirty men each, and when the parties met in a narrow pass at Kilmartin, neither would stand aside for the other. They fought until only the two brothers were left.<gai>


379. Cluinnidh coin na dùthcha e.

<eng>The dogs of the land will hear of it.<gai>


380. Cnapadal, far am bi iad a’ cur tùir ’sna h-eich!

<eng>Knapdale, where they put sense into horses!

A jibe at Knapdale people, who are nicknamed <gai>“crodh maol”<eng> (“hornless cows”).<gai>


381. Có air bith as coiriche, ’s mise as creanaiche.

<eng>Whoever is to blame, I am the sufferer.

A saying attributed to “Seumas a’ Ghlinne” (“James of the Glen”, i.e. James Stewart, Glen Duror) when he was apprehended for trial for the murder of Colin Campbell of Glenure.

[Cf. Carm. Gad., vi. p. 52, s.v. crionalach; N 193. 6.]<gai>


382. Coileach a’ Mhàirt, bidh e ’na thràthadair daonnan.

<eng>A March rooster is always a steady signaller.

[Sim. RC2, p. 488.]<gai>


383. Coin a’ Bharrachalltuinn is clann Iochdrachainn.

<eng>The dogs of Barcaldine and the children of Ichrachan.

A saying attributed to a certain Donnchadh Sheanachainn. He was evidently tormented by the dogs of the one place and the children of the other.<gai>


[TD 73]

384. Coin is gillean is ceàrdanan.

<eng>Dogs, boys and tinkers.<gai>


385. Coltach ri càise Uibhist—tha e làidir, righinn, cruaidh.

<eng>Like Uist cheese—it is rank, tough and hard.<gai>


386. Coltach ri còmhla Nighean Dhòmhnaill ’Ic Iain, bidh i tric ’na bòrdaibh.

<eng>It is often in pieces, like the door of the daughter of Donald, son of John.<gai>


387. Coltach ri muinntir Pheabuill, a’ toirt an arain ás a’ bhrochan.

<eng>Like the people of Paible, taking their bread from the gruel.
(Uist)

The Paible folk are said by neighbours to cook small cakes of bread by dipping them into boiling gruel. The phrase “a’ toirt m’arain as a’ bhrochan” (“taking my bread from the gruel”), was first used by a Paible man named MacDonald to the Laird of Vallay, who had asked how he was.

[The saying may also be translated, “deriving my sustenance from gruel”, and MacDonald possibly meant that as there was a shortage of meal, he was compelled to live on gruel.]<gai>


388. Comraig Dhé ort, ’s na beireadh biasd no bòcan ort!

<eng>God keep you, and may neither beast nor ghost harm you!
(Uist)

Said to someone going on a journey.<gai>


[TD 74]

389. Cothrom Lachainn air an reithe.

<eng>Lachlan’s chance to catch the ram.
(Uist)

Applied jeeringly to one about to shoot at an animal or mark near at hand and impossible to miss.<gai>


390. Cràbhadh a’ Ghlinne—malairt nam muc.

<eng>The religion of the Glen—pig-dealing.

A jibe at Glenurquhart people.

[Cf. TGSI, xlix, p. 247.]<gai>


391. Crann geàrr, glagach,
Eich gun rian ’ga tharruing,
Bean gun chiall ’nan ceann,
’S an talamh tana, teann.

<eng>A short, ramshackle plough, with uncontrollable horses pulling it, a senseless woman leading them, and the soil tough and shallow.

The reply of a Mull man to the question, <gai>“Ciod an t-euradh as miosa ’san robh thu riamh?”<eng> (“What was the hardest difficulty you ever experienced?”).

[Cf. Carm. Gad., vi, p. 79, s.v. ganndach.]<gai>


392. Crathaidh an cù earball ris an neach a bheir dhà.

<eng>The dog wags its tail for the person who gives it something.

[Sim. RC2, p. 488.]<gai>


393. Creideamh a’ bhata bhuidhe.

<eng>The religion of the yellow stick.

[i.e., the Protestant religion. Dw. Notes, s.v., that “A Coll priest of former times was accustomed to drive recalcitrant natives to church by a smart application of his walking-stick... Another version says Hector, son of Donald MacLean of Coll, was


[TD 75]

the one who applied the yellow stick. Hector was laird in 1715, and as the religion of the yellow stick was introduced into Rhum in 1726, It Is beyond doubt that Hector was the author or propagator of it...” Dr Samuel Johnson noted (Journey to the Western Isles of Scotland, p. 115) that he met the laird of Rhum who possessed the yellow stick, “I suppose a cane for which the Earse had no name”.]<gai>


394. Cridhe gun dòchas is bogha gun saighead, tha iad coltach ri chéile.

<eng>A heart without hope and a bow without an arrow resemble each other.
(Uist)<gai>


395. Crìoch air cosnadh—bàs is pòsadh.

<eng>Death and marriage put an end to earning.
(Skye)<gai>


396. Crochadair a’ buain croiche dha fhéin.

<eng>A Devil cutting a gibbet for himself.
(Uist)

Used when a person of ill repute does something which will bring retribution.<gai>


397. Cruaidh ’s mar a bhios a’ bhliadhna, gleidhidh am brachadair a phoca.

<eng>Though the year be hard, the distiller will keep his bag.
(Stratherrick)

[Cf. BP, no. 196.]<gai>


398. Cugann a’ chait chuthaich—có a gheibh e?

<eng>The angry cat’s hoard—who can get it?

[Cf. Carm. Gad., ii, p. 255, s.v. cugan.]<gai>


[TD 76]

399. Cuir an cruaidh-chàs gu neò-chàs.

<eng>Turn hardship into insignificance.
(Uist)

A cheerful expression in hard circumstances.<gai>


400. Cuir fios leis na stoban dubha.

<eng>Send word by the black sticks.
(Inverness district)

i.e., by telegraph. Applied sarcastically to a person who is slandering someone known to the hearer of the slander. [C’s explanation is not entirely convincing.]<gai>


401. Cuir na maoim fo na loguidean.

<eng>Frighten off the ghosts.
(Skye)

[Cf. DW. s.v. loguid; Carm. Gad., vi, p. 100, s.v. logaid.]<gai>


402. Cuir seachad e.

<eng>Pass it on.
(Argyll and Uist)

In Argyll, the phrase meant to cast behind any trouble.

In Uist, it was used in the sense of “Finish it”.

[For the Argyllshire tradition regarding its origin, see TGSI, xlv, p. 10.]<gai>


403. Cuiream Struileag seachad orm.

<eng>Let me pass on Struileag.

A saying used by a person when he had finishtd making a contribution to a céilidh.

[See Glossary s.v. Struileag.]<gai>


404. Cùl an leighis ris an léigh.

<eng>Doctor avoids medicine for himself.<gai>


[TD 77]

405. Cùm romhad, tha d’aran fuinte.

<eng>Keep going, your bread is baked.
(Skye)

Said to a person who is in a favourable position.<gai>


406. Cumadh e roimhe gus an toir a shròn comhairle air.

<eng>Let him carry on until his nose advises him. [i.e., until he is struck on the nose.]

Applied to conceited people who persist on a course which will lead to disaster.<gai>


407. Cur is cathadh, sneachd is reodhadh, feitheamh na Féill Faolain.

<eng>Snowfall and drifting, snow and frost, wait until St Fillan’s Day.
(Perthshire)

St Fillan’s Day was the 9th of January, when a market was held at Killin.<gai>


[TD 78]

D

408. Dà nì ro dhuilich an taghadh, bean agus claidheamh.

<eng>Two things very difficult to choose, a wife and a sword.<gai>


409. Dà sholus a-nochd agus sop an ath-oidhche.

<eng>Two lights tonight and a wisp tomorrow night.

Said of a spendthrift.<gai>


410. Dèan caora dhiot fhéin is ithidh na madaidh thu.

<eng>Make a sheep of yourself and the hounds will eat you.
(Skye)

i.e., deal with a slack hand and the unscrupulous will take advantage of you.<gai>


411. Dèan geasag no trioplag dheth, tha a’ chùis mar sin.

<eng>Treat it as a spell or as a charm, the matter is just like that.
(Benderloch)

Used when a person tells news that is received with surprise or incredulity.<gai>


412. Dèan ’san Oban a réir an Obain.

<eng>When in Oban, do as the people of Oban do.<gai>


413 Deireadh a’ Chrochadair, a chrochadh.

<eng>The end of the Devil is hanging.

[Sim. RC2, p. 489].<gai>


[TD 79]

414. Deoch an doruis! Deoch an t-sonais!
Deoch an deagh thuruis dhuinn!
Deoch-slàinte na fine o’n ghineadh sinn!
Sud e, so e, aithnicheamaid sin oirbh!

O’n a thàrladh dhuinn bhith sona,
Ni dona cha tig ruinn;
Air ghaol sìth ’s air eagal conais,
Thugar Deoch-an-doruis dhuinn!

<eng>The Stirrup-cup! The happy drink! The drink which assures us of a successful journey! The health of the clan from which we sprang! Here it is! There it is! Let’s know you’ve taken it.

As we happen to be lucky, no evil will come upon us; for the sake of peace, and for fear of strife, let us have the Stirrup-cup!

[Cf. N 165, 2.]<gai>


415. Dh’aithnich mi air do dhà shùil gur h-ann á Uig a thàinig thu.

<eng>I knew by your eyes that you came from Uig.

The people of Uig in Skye are supposed to have fine eyes. Uig is in the district of Trotternish, whose people are nicknamed “Na coin” (“The dogs”). A saying which distinguishes the Uig folk from their neighbours is:

<gai>Mo ghaol air do shùil ged bhiodh do bhrù aig na coin.<eng>

I love your eye, though the dogs should possess your stomach.

It is said that the people of Trotternish received this nickname from their eating habits. Another nickname of theirs is <gai>“Na potagan”<eng> (“The dough-lumps”), as they were supposed to eat a handful of (wet) meal as a morning snack.

[Cf. N 318, 3.]<gai>


[TD 80]

416. Dh’fhàg Lachainn a chroit; cha d’fhàg, ’s i a’ chroit a dh’fhàg Lachainn.

<eng>Lachlan left his croft; no, it was his croft that left Lachlan.
(Argyll)

Said of a careless person. The first part of the saying was the news given to a Morvern man by a friend; the second part was his reply.<gai>


417. Dh’fhalbh thu, Aird-nan-clach!

<eng>You’ve perished, Ardnaclach!

Ardnaclach is a township in Appin. The Kirk Session met once to deal with two delinquents. The presiding minister asked the first where she was from, and she told him that she was from Ardnaclach. When the second offender answered the same question in the same way, the minister made the above exclamation.<gai>


418. Dh’òl e bainne na bà baogh a dh’ith am mòthan.

<eng>He drank the milk of the foolish cow which ate the bog-violet.
(Uist)

Used when a person escapes danger by the skin of his teeth.

[See TGSI, xlv, p. 13. Cf. Fr. Allan, p. 184, and Carm. Gad., vi, s.v. mòthan. See Glossary s.v.]<gai>


419. Diardaoin, Là Chaluim-Chille chaoimh,
Là chur chaorach air seilbh;
Là deilbh ’s a chur bà air laogh.

<eng>Thursday is gentle St Columba’s Day; the day to send sheep to pasture, the day to lay warp, and to give a calf a foster-mother.
(Uist)

[Cf. N 168, 9. St Columba’s Day is the Thursday of the second week of June. See F. Marian MacNeill, The Silver Bough, iii, pp. 83-5.]<gai>


[TD 81]

420. Di-haoine gu fàs, Di-mairt gu buain;
Ach obair a thòisicheas Di-luain,
Bidh i luath, no bidh i mall.

<eng>Friday is best for growing, Tuesday is best for reaping; but work begun on Monday will be either fast or slow.

Friday was generally considered an unlucky day to begin work, but among staunch Catholics in the Hebrides, the custom of sowing some corn and planting a few potatoes on Good Friday was rigidly observed.

[Cf. N 33, 6; BP, no. 19; Carm. Gad., p. 261, s.v. Di.]


421. Di-luain ’s Di-haoine, thig gruag air maol.

<eng>On Mondays and Fridays hair will grow on a bald man.
(Skye)

[Presumably these were thought to be “good growing days”!]<gai>


422. Di-màirt a threabh mi,
Di-màirt a chuir mi,
Di-màirt a bhuain mi;
A Thì thug dhomh na trì Màirt,
Cùm rium mo chàil ’s mo chnuasachd.

<eng>I ploughed on a Tuesday, I sowed on a Tuesday, I reaped on a Tuesday; O Thou who hast given me all three Tuesdays, preserve my appetite and my supply.

[Cf. Waifs and Strays, iii, p. 218 and p. 289; Carm. Gad., vi, p. 76, s.v. gàdag.]<gai>


423. Dleasaidh airgead a chùnntadh dà uair.

<eng>Money deserves to be counted twice.
(Uist)<gai>


[TD 82]

424. Do dheòin dhuit a dh’aindeoin—

<eng>Have your desire in spite of—

A phrase suggested by the circumstances is needed to complete the sense.<gai>


425. Dòmanachd nan Liosach.

<eng>The thieving of Lismore folk.
(Argyll)

[From loose sheets within covers of main MS. See TGSI, xlv, p. 14; Glossary s.v. dòmanachd.]<gai>


426. Drama coin—sgailc ’san t-sròin.

<eng>A dog’s dram—a crack on the nose.
(Benbecula)

This refers to a sponger who sits in company drinking his share and buying nothing.<gai>


427. Dùin an uinneag an iar, aon uair ’s gun ciar an tràth.

<eng>Shut the west window, once it begins to get dark.
(Uist)

[A saying attributed to <gai>“Niall Coingeasach”<eng> (“Indifferent Neil”). The west window was shut to prevent fairies or evil of any kind from entering the dwelling by night. See TGSI, xlv, pp. 15-18.]<gai>


428. Duine dubh, dàn; duine bàn, bog;
Duine donn, dualach; duine ruadh, rag.

<eng>A dark-haired man is bold; a fair-haired man is soft; a brown-haired man is conservative; a red-haired man is stubborn.
(Uist)

[Cf. N 182, 9; M, no. 382.]<gai>


[TD 83]

429. Duine gun each gun eathar, is fad’ a shac air deireadh.

<eng>A man without a horse or a boat carries his burden far behind.<gai>


430. Duine gun mhath gun chron, is mò a chron na mhath.

<eng>A man who does neither good nor harm does more harm than good.<gai>


431. Duine leam-leat, is fhearr leat na leam.

<eng>A two-faced man is better with you than with me.<gai>


432. Dùn Bhuirg ’na theine!

<eng>Dun Bhuirg is on fire!
(Uist)

Used when a person shows excitement or great persistence in attending to work. Originally the reply given by a Uist woman to fairies who requested work. Their fortress was known as Dùn Bhuirg and on hearing this they immediately retreated in confusion.

[See TGSI, xlv, p. 18. Tiree tradition states that the fairies once invaded the island from Mull where they had their fortress, Dùn Bhuirg. When the above cry was raised, they returned to Mull as quickly as possible. Cf. Waifs and Strays, i, pp. 54-5 and p. 62.]<gai>


[TD 84]

E

433. Eadar an ursann ’s an dorus.

<eng>Between the door-post and the door.

[Sim. RC2, p. 490.]<gai>


434. Eadar Ceann t-Sàile is balla na Frainge.

<eng>Between Kintail and the wall of France.

[Cf. no. 437.]<gai>


435. Eadar dà Bhealltainn.

<eng>Between two May Days.
(Uist)

This once signified a whole year. Later it referred to sowing and planting—best done during the fortnight between the New and the Old Style of May Day (1st to 14th May).

[Cf. no. 53.]<gai>


436. Eadar dhà lionn, mar bha Seumas ’s a phlangaid.

<eng>Between floating and sinking, like James and his blanket.

i.e., partly satisfied.

[Cf. N 171, 11.]<gai>


437. Eadar Nis is Tigh nan Cailleachan-dubha ’n Uig.

<eng>Between Ness and the Nunnery in Uig.

i.e., from one end of Lewis to the other. Ness is at the northern end of the island while the Nunnery was at Baile na Cille in Uig.<gai>


438. Ealamh gu gealladh, ealamh gu dearmad.

<eng>Quick to promise, quick to forget.<gai>


[TD 85]

439. Easguinn, a shneadh, a mhuile-mhàg! Gabh ás mo rathad!

<eng>You eel, you nit, you frog! Get out of my way!
(Lismore)<gai>


440. Eathar cheanna-bhòrd, agus cliabh cheanna-shlat.

<eng>A boat made of the ends of planks, and a creel made of the ends of rods.

The ends of planks sawn from the ground end of a tree and rods chosen from the mature thick parts are meant. These would be better than the brittle or sappy smaller ends.<gai>


441. Eathar ùr is seana chreagan.

<eng>A new boat and old rocks.

Used when a person is going to tackle old obstacles with a new weapon.<gai>


442. Eirig mheachainn.

<eng>An ameliorative [expiatory(?)] ransom.
(Benderloch)

[Heard from an old man who was speaking of Barcaldine Castle and said that a man had been buried alive under its foundation as an<gai> “éirig mheachainn”—<eng>a kind of scape-goat. See TGSI, xlv, p. 18.]<gai>


443. Eòlas Chaluim-Chille do aon bhó na cailliche.

<eng>St Columba’s charm for the old woman’s one cow.

[These are the opening lines of a charm. See The Highland Monthly, iv. pp. 436-7. Cf. no. 644.]<gai>


444. Eòlas na sùla duirche.

<eng>The knowledge of the dark eye.

i.e., of the blind eye. A reference to the development of other senses in blind people.<gai>


[TD 86]

F

445. Facal a beul is eun air sgéith.

<eng>A word from the mouth and a bird on the wing.<gai>


446. Fad a lurga do’n laogh,
Fad a thaobh do’n chuilean choin;
Fad a pheircill do’n mheann,
’S a cheangal teann ris an raoith.

<eng>The length of its leg for a calf; the length of its side for a puppy; the length of its jaw for a kid, firmly fastened to the tetherpin.

This gives the comparative lengths of tether for the animals named.

[Cf. N 174, 1; Carm. Gad., vi, p. 120, S.V. roith.]<gai>


447. Fàg do chudthrom air do ràthan.

<eng>Let your burden rest on your securities.<gai>


448. Faicill do thoilleadh, a mhuilleir.

<eng>Take care of your toll, miller.

i.e., look after what is your due.

[See TGSI, xlv, p. 19. Cf. Carm. Gad., vi, p. 55, s.v. cùileag.]<gai>


449. Fàilt’ air fuarachadh.

<eng>A welcome turned cold.<gai>


[TD 87]

450. Fàinne mu meur is tàbh (al. ciotag) mu tiùmban.

<eng>A ring on her finger and rags on her bottom.

[Cf. N 175, 7.]<gai>


451. Fairichidh fear-cadail an t-saighead ’na ghaol.
Is chan fhairich fear-fàirde an t-saighead ’na thaobh.

<eng>A lover feels the arrow in his sleep, but a lazy man doesn’t feel an arrow in his side.<gai>


452. Falaichidh an luathadh na lochdan.

<eng>Waulking will hide the faults.
(Uist)

If a web of tweed is loosely woven, waulking improves it in quality and appearance.<gai>


453. Faodaidh cainnt a bhith modhail ged bhitheas i goirt.

<eng>Language may be polite even though it is bitter.<gai>


454. Faodaidh e bhith ’na dhuine math fhathast ach chan eil gnùis deagh dhuin’ aige.

<eng>He may become a good man yet, but he hasn’t got a good man’s face.

A Highland chief, <gai>“Dòmhnall Dubh a’ Churraic”<eng> (“Black Donald of the Cap”), was the father of many illegitimate children. He provided well for children and mothers, and as a result, one woman who did not have a child envied those who had. So she dressed up a cat in baby clothes, trained it to lie in her lap like a child, and sent for the chief to see his offspring. On viewing the “baby”, he spoke the above words.

[Cf. N 177, 1.]<gai>


455. Faodaidh e seasamh air cnoc àrd.

<eng>He can stand on a high hill.

Said of one who progresses farther than his contemporaries.<gai>


[TD 88]

456. Faodaidh luchd nam falluinnean dearga [a bhith] gun an calg a bhith fuilteach.

<eng>Those that had red robes (i.e., deer) need not have blood-stained hair.

i.e., they are not all shot.

[Cf. Carm. Gad., ii, p. 273, s.v., falluinn.]<gai>


457. Faoileagan a’ chladaich againn fhéin.

<eng>The seagulls of our own shore.

i.e., our own folk.

[Cf. N 178, 3.]<gai>


458. Far am bi aon tlachd, bidh iomadh tlachd.

<eng>Where there is one attraction, there are many.<gai>


459. Far am bi ceòl, cha bhi mìothlachd.

<eng>Where there is music, there is no unpleasantness.<gai>


460. Far an d’fhuair an t-uan am bainne, théid e air ais ann.

<eng>The lamb will return to the place where it got milk.<gai>


461 Far an sgapar an teine, bidh fuachd; far an cruinnchear e, bidh teas.

<eng>Where fire is dispersed, there is cold; where it is gathered together, there is heat.<gai>


462. Fàs is gnàths is toradh.

<eng>Life, indigenous growth and fruit.

On New Year’s morning, the head of a household brought in a twig of a tree with these charatatersics. It must have life, belong to the land a native growth, and bear fruit in its season.<gai>


[TD 89]

463. Fàsaidh an sìol eòrna ann an cladach nan cuiseag.

<eng>Barley seed will grow on a shore full of docken.<gai>


464. Feannadh a’ bhuilg Rònaich.

<eng>The flaying of the Rona bag.

Some islanders were accustomed to skin sheep by beginning at the rump and flaying all round without cutting the skin as far as the neck. The skin was used, woolly side out, as a bag for holding meal. The saying is used when a person is badly fleeced.

[Cf. Fr. Allan, p. 36, s.v. balg.]<gai>


465. Fear gun chuid, is diùididh a chéilidh anmoch.

<eng>A late visit from a poor man is embarrasing.
(Uist)<gai>


466. Feòil air do bhonnach, mar a bha ceann a’ Chuimeinich.

<eng>Meat for your bread, like Cumming’s head.

[Used when a person contemplates revenge. It refers to the head of the son of Cumming of Raitts in Morayshire, which was brought to his father after he had been killed in a cave as retribution for a clan battle. See TGSI, xlv, p. 20.]<gai>


467. Feumaidh gill’ a’ mhadaidh earball a thogail.

<eng>The fox’s servant has to lift its tail.
(Perthshire)

[Cf. N 192, 6.]<gai>


468. Fhad’s a bhios bainn’ aig bó dhubh,
Fhad’s a bhios Crògaire ’Ic Cuinn ’na bun,
’S fhad’s a bhios ìngnean air làimh no cas.

<eng>As long as a black cow gives (white) milk, as long as MacQueen’s Crogaire stays on its foundation, and as long as nails are found on hand or foot.


[TD 90]

These were the terms of a lease granted by the Lord of the Isles of Oronsay in N. Uist. “An Crògaire” is the name of a mountain in the island. A Perthshire lease was to last “as long as a black cow gave white milk”. The lease of Kyle House is supposed to be <gai>“Cho fad’s a ruitheas sruth ’sa Chaol”<eng> (“As long as a stream flows in the Kyle”).

[Cf. N 139, 10.]<gai>


469. Fhir a chuir a’ bhoinnealaich, cuir an dearbh bhuidealaich.

<eng>Thou who didst send rain-drops, send a real downpour.
(Perthshire)

The prayer of a clansman who saw a few of his enemies fall in battle.<gai>


470. Fiathachadh an rathaid mhóir—neò’r thaing “Ciamar a tha thu’n diugh?” is “Ciamar a tha iad agaibh?”

<eng>The roadway invitation—any amount of “How are you today?” and “How are your people?”

No hospitality is offered.<gai>


471. Fìdhlear is tàillear is cat,
Breabadair is greusaiche is muc.

<eng>A fiddler, a tailor and a cat; a weaver, a shoemaker and a pig.<gai>


472. Figheadair is dathadair is broc.

<eng>A weaver, a dyer and a badger.<gai>


473. Fìon is fochlas is feòil.

<eng>Wine, prize and meat
(Uist)

[Sim. Dw. s.v. fochlas.]<gai>


[TD 91]

474. Fòid mhór oidhch’ Fhéill Fhinnein.

<eng>The big peat of St Finnan’s Eve.

A Perthshire custom which survived about Killin until fairly recently. At cutting time, a large peat was carefully dried and kept until the eve of the Saint’s day, 2lst December. It burnt all night and was used to cook the food on the next day and as long as it lasted.<gai>


475. Fogharadh nam bràithrean.

<eng>The brothers’ harvest.
(Argyll)

[The name for the period of fine weather during the months of October and November. It is given different names throughout the Highlands, but these usually refer to districts or to people who are late with their harvest work. See TGSI, xlv, p. 20.]<gai>


476. Fuaim na cuirce gun a faobhar.

<eng>The sound of the knife without its cutting edge.
(Uist)

Used when a threat is not carried out.<gai>


477. Fuaraich ’sa bhoicionn ’san do theasaich thu.

<eng>Cool off in the skin in which you warmed up.

Said to a person in a temper.<gai>


478. Fuil á blàr is blàr á peilear.

<eng>Bloodshed results from a battle and a battle from a bullet.<gai>


[TD 92]

479. Fuil nan Stiùbhartach anns na rìghrean is anns na ceàird.

<eng>The blood of the Stewarts flows in kings and tinkers.
(Arygll)

[Cf. N 350, 4]<gai>


480. Fuirich! Feith ris a’ chuthaig!

<eng>Hold on! Wait for the cuckoo!
(Argyll)

i.e., wait for better times.<gai>


[TD 93]

G

481. Gabh an t-iasg air a shnàmh.

<eng>Catch the fish while it swims.

i.e., take advantage of an opportunity.<gai>


482. Gabh do cheithir-rathadan-fichead.

<eng>Go your twenty-four ways.
(Uist)

An Argyll variant has <gai>“do sheachd-rathadan-fichead”<eng>—“your twenty-seven ways”.

[i.e., get lost.]<gai>


483. Gabh do thigh MhicSìridh.

<eng>Go to MacSiridh’s house.

[i.e., get lost. See Glossary s.v. MacSìrith.]<gai>


484. Gabh no guaid e.

<eng>Take it or leave it.
(Inverness district)

[Sim. Dw. s.v. guaid.]<gai>


485. Gabhaig dubh nam feadan fiar.

<eng>Gloomy Gaick of the crooked crevices.

Gaick is a district in Badenoch.

[See TGSI, xlix, pp. 70 f.]<gai>


486. Gach aon ’s le chéile an aghaidh an domhain.

<eng>Each one, and all together, against the world.

Attributed to the Duke of Perth when he urged the MacDonalds to charge at the Battle of Culloden.<gai>


[TD 94]

487. Gach cleas gu cleas na h-aoige.

<eng>Every trick works till the trick of death.

[i.e., death cannot be outwitted.]<gai>


488. Gach cùis gu cùmhnant.

<eng>Let every business be done by agreement.<gai>


489. Gach diùbhras gu deireadh.

<eng>Keep every contemptible thing to the last.

[See Glossary s.v. diùbhras.]<gai>


490. Gach uan nas gile na mhàthair, ’s a mhàthair cho geal ris an t-sneachd.

<eng>Every lamb is whiter than its mother, and its mother is as white as snow.

Often used sarcastically.

[Cf. N 111, 1.]<gai>


491. Gàire is ceann caoinidh air.

<eng>A laugh which ends in weeping.
(Uist)

i.e., an hysterical laugh when one can as readily cry as laugh.<gai>


492. Galar a’ mhairt a bha am Port Ascaig—am fuachd ’s an t-acras còmhla.

<eng>The disease which afflicted the cow in Port Askaig—cold and hunger together.<gai>


493. Gaoth bharr nan tonn,
Gaoth troimh tholl,
Is gaoth lom an aiteimh.

<eng>Wind off the waves, wind through a hole, and keen wind of thaw.


[TD 95]

i.e., the three coldest winds. Cf.<gai>

Gaoth fo sheòl,
Gaoth troimh fhròig,
Is gaoth troimh chùl an doruis.

<eng>Wind from beneath a sail, wind through a cranny, and wind from behind a door.

[The last line should perhaps be altered to <gai>“Is gaoth troimh chòmhl’ an doruis”<eng> (“And wind through the door-valve”).]

Cf. also<gai>

Gaoth troimh tholl.
Gaoth bhàrr thonn ’s an long fo sheòl,
Is gaoth fhuar an aiteimh.

<eng>Wind through a hole, wind off the waves while the ship is under sail, and the cold wind of thaw.

[Cf. N 192, 1, 2; RC2, p. 491; MFS, p. 34.]<gai>


494. Gaoth na Callainn, gaoth na bliadhna.

<eng>The wind at Hogmanay will be the wind for the rest of the year.

It was supposed that the direction of the wind at Hogmanay gave that of the prevailing wind for the coming year.

[Cf. RC2, p. 49l; Fr. Allan, p. 135, s.v. gaoth.]<gai>


495. Gaoth n-ear do fhearaibh a’ chuain!

<eng>An east wind for the men of the sea!
(Uist)

[C. comments that the saying may refer to Scandinavians, presumably Norsemen, but this is not convincing. It may refer to the long spells of east winds experienced in the islands in winter time. Cf. Fr. Allan, p. 135. s.v. gaoth.]<gai>


[TD 96]

496. Gaoth tuath ’m beul ’na h-oidhche, cha robh i riamh buan.

<eng>A north wind at nighfall never lasted long.
(Uist)<gai>


497. Gaoth tuath ’s gu leòir dhith!

<eng>A north wind and plenty of it!
(Uist)

A malediction. There is no shelter on the exposed machairs and fords of Uist.<gai>


498. Ge b’e a gheibh an clobha, is e as luaithe phòsas.

<eng>Whoever finds the tongs will marry soonest.
(Uist)

Said when the tongs get lost.<gai>


499. Ge b’e air bith àit’ am bi thu ’san latha, bi an Crudha ’n Eich ’san oidhche.

<eng>Wherever you are by day, be in the Horse-Shoe (anchorage) by night.

<gai>“Crudha ’n Eich”<eng> (“The Horse-Shoe”) is a very safe anchorage in the island of Kerrera.<gai>


500. Ge binn a’ chuthag, cha bhinn cuthag-chluaise.

<eng>Though the cuckoo is sweet, I do not think a tittle-tattle is sweet.

[See Glossary s.v. cuthag-chluaise.]<gai>


501. Ge math clòimh, chan ithear clòimh

<eng>Though wool is good, it can’t be eaten.

The reply given to a Skye minister by a poor woman who came to him for food but was offered wool.<gai>


502. Ge math solus latha, is i an oidhche as coibhneile.

<eng>Though daylight is good, night is more kindly.


[TD 97]

Cattle-thieves were of this opinion. The full moon was called <gai>“Buad MhicPhàrlain”<eng> (“MacFarlane’s Bowat”) as it frequently gave the MacFarlanes light on their expeditions.

[For traditions connected with the MacFarlanes of Arrocher, see J. Mackechnie (ed.), The Dewar Manuscripts Volume 1, pp. 120-1. Cf. Carm. Gad., vi, p. 24, s.v. buad].<gai>


503. Gearan an droch sheirbhisich air an latha Earraich—ged bhios an dara ceann dheth fliuch, bidh an ceann eile dheth math.

<eng>The lazy servant’s complaint about the Spring day—though one end of it is wet, the other end is dry.
(Uist)

[C. attributes this saying and its variant, no. 826, to a Uist man, Donald Munro from Lochmaddy, who was well known for his laziness, and who was nicknamed “An Speireag” (“The Sparrow-hawk”) in derision.]<gai>


504. Geaslanachd na Callainn.

<eng>The divination of New Year’s Eve.

This refers to the custom of determining the prevailing wind for the coming year. See no. 494.<gai>


505. Ged bheirear tràigh dhiom, cha toirear timcheall.

<eng>Though I cannot go by the shore, I can go the long way round.
(Uist)

This refers to Uist fords.<gai>


506. Ged is ionann cladach, chan ionann maorach.

<eng>Though the shore is similar, the shellfish are different.
(Uist)<gai>


[TD 98]

<eng>This means that newcomers differ from those who preceded them, although they may be in similar capacities.

[Cf. Fr. Allan. p. 71, s.v. cladach; J. L. Campbell, Seanfhocail agus Comhadan, p. 3.]<gai>


507. Ged is math creideamh, is leòir na dh’ fhóghnas dheth.

<eng>Although religion is good, enough of it is enough.<gai>


508. Ged is mór Creag-a’-Choth, is beag a math.

<eng>Though Creag-a’-Choth is big, it is of little use.

The reply of a Mull man when he was complimented on the size of his wife.
[Sim. RC2, p. 492.]<gai>


509. Ged nach eug fear a’ chumha, théid e ’m mudha.

<eng>Though a mourner will not die, he will decline.
(Uist)<gai>


510. Ged tha thu buidheach, na bris do shoitheach.

<eng>Though you are grateful, do not break your dish.
[Cf. LP, no. 72.]<gai>


511. Ged rachadh a’ ghealach an ear (al. a’ ghrian tuathal), cha choinnich an là ’n dé an diugh.

<eng>Even if the moon were to go eastwards (al. the sun anti-clockwise), yesterday would not meet today.
(Argyll)<gai>


512. Ged thigeadh MacCailein ’s an Rìgh, cha rachadh ac’ air.

<eng>Though Argyll and the King should come, they couldn’t do it.

[Cf. no. 698.]<gai>


[TD 99]

513. Ghabh e cridhe an iasad.

<eng>He took heart on loan.

Used when a person shows unusual resources or initiative.

[But Dw., who quotes a variant s.v. iasad, states that this is “an exaggerated way of saying that one would borrow anything”.]<gai>


514. Ghabh mi càl teth roimhe so.

<eng>I have eaten hot kale before now.

Cf. “A burnt child dreads the fire”.<gai>


515. Gheall math tighinn.

<eng>Good promised to come.

An encouraging remark in difficult circumstances.<gai>


516. Gheibh bó bleoghann; gheibh domhain daoine.

<eng>A cow will be milked; a world will be peopled.

[Sim. RC2, p. 423; cf. N 203, 6.]<gai>


517. Gheibh neach thairis air bochdainn, ach chan fhaigh e thairis air sannt.

<eng>A person will recover from poverty [or illness], but he will not recover from covetousness.<gai>


518. Gheibhear bean bheag odhar ann an dorus a tighe fhéin, ach a’ bhean mhór bhrèagha o dhuine gu duine.

<eng>A drab little wife is found at the door of her own house, but a fine big wife goes from one man to another.

[Cf. N 353, 9.]<gai>


[TD 100]

519. Ghoideadh e ’n t-sùil ás a’ chorra-ghrithich.

<eng>He could steal the eye from the heron.
(Uist)

The heron is one of the most watchful birds on the shore.<gai>


520. Giomach, rionnach agus ròn, trì seòid a’ chuain.

<eng>A lobster, a mackerel and a seal are the three heroes of the sea.

i.e., they are the fastest in the sea.<gai>


521. Giubhannach, gabhannach, pileagach, peileagach, bradach, breugach.

<eng>Slanderous, back-biting, clip-tongued, chattering, thieving, lying.

Applied to a despicable character.<gai>


522. Giùlainidh iad naidheachd nuair nach giùlain iad eallach.

<eng>They can carry a tale when they cannot carry a burden.

Said of children.<gai>


523. Glac am bradan air a leum.

<eng>Catch the salmon as it leaps.<gai>


524. Gleidh do nàire.

<eng>Spare your bashfulness.

[Or “Keep your sense of shame”.]<gai>


525. Gnothach a’ ghille leisg ’san fhogharadh—théid e fada leis is bidh e fada ris.

<eng>The lazy lad’s burden at harvest time—he goes a long way with it, and he takes a long time about it.<gai>


[TD 101]

526. Gruag ruadh boirionnaich,
Is feusag liath firionnaich,
Ruth is rath na leirist
A gheibh an nead a’ chlacharain.

<eng>A woman’s red hair and a man’s grey beard bring fortune and good luck to the slut who finds them in a stone-chat’s nest.
(Uist)

[Cf. Carm. Gad., ii, p. 319, s.v. rath.]<gai>


527. Gu fhine fhéin gach treun!
<eng>Let every hero go to his own clan!<gai>


528. Guirean air màs.

<eng>A pimple on a buttock.

i.e., an insignificant matter.<gai>


529. Gul is gàire, sàr ghlòir an duine.

<eng>Tears and laughter are man’s best means of expression.<gai>


530. Guma làn a bhios an làmh thoirteil!

<eng>May the generous hand ever be full!
(Argyll)

A kind wish for one who gives help.<gai>


531. Gun gleidheadh Nì Math a mhàthraichean ’s e’ mhàg-bhleoighne!

<eng>May God keep His mothers and the hand that milks!
(Perthshire)

A wish made by a person who receives a drink of milk.

[Cf. Dw. s.v. màg. where a variant of this saying is given with “muirichinn”, “children, family”, or “màthraichean” above.]<gai>


532. Guth na faoileig aig an sgliùbraich.

<eng>The young gull has the old gull’s voice.

[i.e., it’s pretending to be older than it is. Cf. N 208, 7: RC2, p. 493; Fr. Allan. p. 211, s.v. sgàireag.]<gai>


[TD 102]

533. Haoidh! ’Ille Mhóir an t-Socaich, an robh thu riamh an Giogha? Bha. A bheil a’ cheàrdach làimh ris an tigh-sheinns’?

<eng>Hey! Big Fellow of Succoth, were you ever in Gigha? Yes. Does the smithy stand near the public-house?

A catch question. Formerly, the clachan consisted of a place where the parish church, the local smithy and the public-house stood near each other. [Gigha is an island.]<gai>


534. Ho! Ho! Thug mi ’n car asad an tràths’!

<eng>Ho! Ho! I’ve cheated you this time!
(Uist)

The saying of a fool who sheltered from a shower of rain in a doorway.<gai>


[TD 103]

I

535. Iain na Gàidhlig.

<eng>John of the Gaelic.

[From loose sheets within covers of MS. No explanation is given. The reference may be to John Cumming, a “character” from the Duthil district, who once caused consternation in an Elgin court by taking the oath in Gaelic, and by giving flippant answers to the Sheriff’s questions. See The Highlander, 30 Sept. 1876.]<gai>


536. Imrich uaibhreach.

<eng>Conceited flitting.
(Inverness-shire and W. Isles)

Applied when conceit makes a person change his house or occupation merely to impress others.
[Cf. GP, p. 54, no. 12.]<gai>


537. Innis an fhìrinn is faodaidh tu an dùthaich fhàgail.

<eng>Tell the truth and you may leave the country.
(Uist)<gai>


538. Is anail atharrachadh ceàird.

<eng>A change of work is a rest.

[Cf. N 294, 6.]<gai>


539. Is ann air an alt sin a bha treise na droma.

<eng>The strength of the back depended on that joint.

Cf. “The strongest part of a chain is its weakest link”.<gai>


[TD 104]


540. Is ann air comhairle na gaoithe a tha ’n cuan.

<eng>The sea is at the will of the wind.<gai>


541. Is ann air ìngnean a dh’aithnichear an duin’-uasal.

<eng>You can tell a gentleman by his finger-nails.
(Uist)

[C. comments that this refers to bodies washed ashore on the Long Island, but its application is probably more general. Cf. Dw. s.v. ionga.]<gai>


542. Is ann air tìr a tha an stiùireadair as fheàrr.

<eng>The best steersman is ashore.
(Lismore)<gai>


543. Is ann am beul a’ phoca tha ’n caomhnadh; caomhnaidh an deireadh e fhéin.

<eng>What’s at the mouth of the sack should be used sparingly; what’s at the bottom will spare itself.<gai>


544. Is ann annad a tha na bha anns na mucan.

<eng>You have in you what was in the swine.

[Sim. RC2, p. 494. Possibly a reference to the swine of the Gadarenes in St Luke, 8.]<gai>


545. Is ann ás a’ cheann a bhleaghas a’ bhó agus a’ bhean.

<eng>A cow and a woman give milk from the head.

i.e., they require extra feeding when pregnant and suckling.

[Cf. Dw. s.v. bleagh; N 153, 4; BP, no. 138.]<gai>


546. In ann fo’n innean a theicheas cù a’ ghobha.

<eng>The smith’s dog flees under the anvil.

i.e., for protection from the sparks.<gai>


[TD 105]

547. Is ann o Dhia a thig cadal is eug, is cha dhùininn mo shùil ach do’n Tì a dh’fhosgail i.

<eng>Sleep and death come from God, and I would not shut my eyes except in the name of Him who opened them.
(Uist)<gai>


548. Is ann ormsa a losgadh a’ mheilteag is cha b’e an t-sopag.

<eng>I lost a bundle and not a wisp through burning.
(Uist)

Used of serious loss.<gai>


549. Is beag an iorram nach cluinn dithis.

<eng>It’s a small boat-song which two will not hear.

Where there are only a few, a smaller incentive is required.

[Cf. N 216, 10.]<gai>


550. Is beag an rud a bheir fuil á ceann carrach.

<eng>The least thing will make a scabby head bleed.
(Uist)

[Presumably said of a person with a cantankerous nature Cf. no 310].<gai>


551. Is beag an rud nach blais bean; cuiridh i a teang’ air an alum.

<eng>A thing has to be very insignificant for a woman not to taste it; she will put her tongue on alum.<gai>


552. Is beag an suidhe nach dèan uidhe.

<eng>Even the shortest rest will delay a journey.

[Sim. RC2, p. 494. See Glossary s.v. uidhe.]<gai>


553. Is beag an tigh anns an toill càirdean.

<eng>Even a small house can accommodate friends.<gai>


[TD 106]

554. Is binn uiseag ’sa chamhanaich, ach is binne coileach mu mheadhon oidhche.

<eng>A lark at daybreak sounds sweet, but a cockerel around midnight sounds sweeter.
(Uist)

It was thought that the crow of the cockerel repelled evil spirits. The following are some of the names given to the cockerel in Uist:

<gai>Fear-coimhid na h-ùrnuigh<eng>—the regulator of prayer.
<gai>Fear-dìon nam baoth<eng>—the protector of the simple-minded.
<gai>Fear-dùsgaidh nan creidmheach<eng>—the waker of the faithful.
<gai>Fear-dùsgaidh nan naomh<eng>—the waker of the pious.
<gai>Fear-faire<eng>—the watchman.
<gai>Fear-faire na h-oidhche<eng>—the watchman of the night.
<gai>Fear-faire nan tràth<eng>—the watchman of the hours.
<gai>Fear-seannsaidh na maidne<eng>—the announcer of morning.

[Cf. Carm. Gad., iv, pp. 6 f.; Fr. Allan, p. 77, s.v. coileach.]<gai>


555. Is blianach Nollaig gun sneachd.

<eng>Christmas without snow is poor fare.

(Uist)

[Cf. Dw. s.v. blianach.]<gai>


556. Is cam gach còmhdhail dha.

<eng>Everyone he meets brings him misfortune.

[Cf. Carm. Gad., vi, p. 47, s.v. còmhlaiche.]<gai>


557. Is co math dol do’n tobar le cliabh.

<eng>It is as good to go to the well with a creel.
(Argyll)

Said of a useless undertaking.<gai>


[TD 107]

558. Is co math sguab is adag dheth.

<eng>A sheaf of it is as good as a stook.

i.e., a little of it is as good as a lot.<gai>


559. Is coimheach a’ Bhliadhn’ Ur do’n t-seann duine.

<eng>An old man thinks that the New Year is unkind.

It reminds him of the passing of the years.<gai>


560. Is còir comhairle-rath (al. comhairle na h-aoise) a ghabhail.

<eng>Advice to one’s advantage (al. the advice of older people) ought to be accepted.<gai>


561. Is còir do’n Fhaoilteach a trì claisean a thoirt dhi.

<eng>The Faoilteach ought to be given its three furrows.

The three furrows are full of snow, rain and the thatch of houses (stripped off by wind).

[C. defines the Faoilteach as the second half of February and the first half of March, but the period seems to have varied from area to area. Cf. Dw. s.v. Faoilleach and Faoilteach. Dw., s.v. Faoilteach, gives a variant of this saying, and explains that stormy weather towards the end of January indicated that a fruitful season would follow.]<gai>


562. Is coltach Osan ri Mogan.

<eng>Hose is just like Stocking.

Applied to a pair of equally insignificant characters.<gai>


563. Is coma leam fear-suidhe nan tighean;
Cha robh céilidheach nach robh labhrach;
Chu robh labhrach nach robh breugach;
Cha robh breugach nach robh bradach.


[TD 108]

<eng>I don’t care for a person who sits in houses; there was never a gossip who didn’t talk; there was never a talker who didn’t tell lies; there was never a liar who didn’t steal.

[Cf. N 124; RC2, p. 486.]<gai>


564. Is companta fear ’s a nàdur.

<eng>A man and his nature are close companions.

[Cf. Dw. s.v. companach.]<gai>


565. Is cugallach an t-sealg,
Is cearbadach an t-iasg;
Cuir do mhuinghinn ’san talamh
Cha d’fhàg e fear falamh riamh.

<eng>Hunting is precarious, fishing is unreliable; put your trust in the land—it never left a man empty.

[Cf. N. 158, 1; Dw. and Carm. Gad., ii, p. 255, s.v. cugallach.]<gai>


566. Is dìoghlum gach ám ’s gach àite do’n duine ghlic.

<eng>A wise man gleans at every time and place.<gai>


567. Is dligheach crádh do uaill.

<eng>Pride must suffer pain.<gai>


568. Is dlùithe uileann na dòrn.

<eng>The elbow is nearer than the fist.
(Uist)

i.e., friends from whom one expects help are nearer than mere acquaintances.<gai>


569. Is dlùth tamhasg màthar ri dilleachdan.

<eng>A mother’s spirit is always near her orphaned child.<gai>


[TD 109]

570. Is don’ an gabhalach, ach tha don’ an donais anns an ath-ghabhalach.

<eng>It is bad to be a tenant, but the very worst thing is to be a sub-tenant.

[Cf. Carm. Gad., ii, p. 239, s.v. caithris.]<gai>


571. Is duilich rath a chur air neach a dh’aindeoin.

<eng>It is difficult to make a man lucky against his will.

[Cf. N 229, 3; BP, no. 145.]<gai>


572. Is dus a bha ’sa phoca a bha ’sa mhuileann.

<eng>Dust was in the sack which was in the mill.
(Perthshire)

A charm against fairies. The first part is ambiguous, and can be taken as <gai>“’S tus’”,<eng> giving “You were…”.

[Cf. no. 778.]<gai>


573. Is e a lughad a lughad a nis.

<eng>Its smallness is really its smallness now.

Used when a poor return is received, and nothing more is to be expected.<gai>


574. Is e an samhradh grianach a nì am fogharadh ciatach.

<eng>A sunny summer produces an excellent harvest.
(Uist)<gai>


575. Is e an tàillear a nì ’n duine.

<eng>The tailor makes the man.

[Doubtless sarcastic, as tailors were despised for their physical impediments. Cf. no. 249.]<gai>


576. Is e an t-eun lom as fhaidhe leumas.

<eng>The bare bird hops farthest.
(Pertshire)<gai>


[TD 110]

577. Is e an treas dual neart an tobha.

<eng>The strength of the rope lies in the third strand.<gai>


578. Is e anacladh na h-òige a nì ’n duine.

<eng>Careful attention in youth builds the man.

[See Glossary s.v. anacladh.]<gai>


579. Is e barrachd an aodaich a bhàthas na longan caola.

<eng>Excess sail sinks narrow-beamed ships.
(Uist)<gai>


580. Is e deireadh nan Gàidheal a bhith falamh.

<eng>It is the fate of Highlanders to have nothing.<gai>


581. Is e do sheòrsa-sa as fhas’ fhaotainn.

<eng>Your kind is easiest to find.
[Cf. no. 606.]<gai>


582. Is e iomradh an droch latha a nì an latha math gu iomradh.

<eng>A bad day’s rowing makes the day good for rowing.
(Uist)

i.e., facing bad circumstances ensures conquering them.

[Sim. Dw., s.v. iomradh. But “iomradh” can also mean “metion, report”, so that the saying could be translated “Mention of a bad day makes the day good for rowing”, i.e., the rowing will be all the better to avoid bad weather.]<gai>


583. Is e leigheas a’ chnatain cnapan itheadh.

<eng>The cure for a cold is to eat something.
(Argyll)<gai>


584. Is e milleadh nam bochd an uireasbhuidh.

<eng>What spoils poor people is their poverty

[Cf. Carm. Gad., ii, p. 230.]<gai>


[TD 111]

585. Is e sgìos a’ chosnaiche a bhith ’na thàmh.

<eng>What wearies a worker is being idle.<gai>


586. Is e sin an spàin ás a chàl.

<eng>The spoon has been taken out of his kale.

Used when a person is relieved of supporting another.<gai>


587. Is fad’ a chluinnear geum bà air lòn mór Las-an-tulaich.

<eng>The lowing of a cow on the large meadow of Lassintulloch can be heard far away. (Rannoch)<gai>


588. Is fad’ a lean earchall ris.

<eng>Misfortune has followed him for a long time.<gai>


589. Is fad’ an latha dha-san nach do chuir blas na h-oidhche ás a bheul.

<eng>The day is long for the person who has not removed the taste of night from his mouth.
(Uist)

i.e., for a person who has not broken his fast.<gai>


590. Is fad’ o Dhaibhidh Sutharlan am Fear ris a bheil e glaodhach.

<eng>The One to whom he is shouting is far from David Sutherland.

David Sutherland, a somewhat boisterous preacher, was minister of the parish of Farr at the time of the Disruption of 1843. He remained within the Church of Scotland, and it is said that the Free Church party employed a half-witted man to stand outside the parish church and repeat the above words while he was preaching.<gai>


[TD 112]

591. Is fad’ o lagh Diabaig.

<eng>Diabaig is far from the law.

Diabaig is a small and inaccessible village on Loch Torridon.<gai>


592. Is fhaid’ a làmh cheàrr na a làmh cheart.

<eng>His left hand is longer than his right.
(Uist)

A polite way of saying that a man is a thief.<gai>


593. Is fhasa a chriathradh na chur air muin eich.

<eng>It is easier to sift him than to put him on horseback.

Said of a person long deag and buried.<gai>


594. Is fheàrr an dris na ’n droighinn; is fheàrr an droighinn na ’n Donas.

<eng>The bramble is better than the blackthorn; the blackthorn is better than the Devil.
(Argyll)

[Cf. Carm. Gad., ii, p. 265, s.v. drìs.]<gai>


595. Is fheàrr an Tì a chùm na ’n tì a chronaich.

<eng>The One who has ordained matters is better than the one who made the rebuke.
(Lochcarron)

Used with reference to the weather, etc.<gai>


596. Is fheàrr blàths an teine na blas na gainne.

<eng>The warmth of the fire is better than the taste of scarcity.<gai>


597. Is fheàrr dùthchas na gach nì.

<eng>Hereditary is better than everthing else.

[Presumably applied to hereditary rights etc.]<gai>


[TD 113]

598. Is fheàrr leam na nì ’san domhain, omhann air beul-fuar.

<eng>I prefer (to see) froth on a mean mouth to anything on earth.

i.e., it gratifies to irritate a churl. Heard on Oban pier, from a Lismore man who pleaded for payment and annoyed the man whose money he was due.<gai>


599. Is fheàrr meang Uibhist na bainne blàth Ghlaschu.

<eng>Uist whey is better than warm Glasgow milk.<gai>


600. Is fheàrr mìr a chur am beul béiste na cur a-mach oirre.

<eng>It is better to put a morsel in a beast’s mouth than to quarrel with it.

[Cf. N 317, 1a.]<gai>


601. Is fheàrr suathadh ri càs na fuaigheal ri crois.

<eng>It is better to rub against a misfortune than to be bound to an affliction.

[Cf. GP, p. 54, no. 5.]<gai>


602. Is fuar a dh’éireas a’ ghrian air bruadar an t-seann duine.

<eng>The sun rises cold on an old man’s dream.<gai>


603. Is fuar an tigh mura bith aoibh air bean-an-tighe.

<eng>The house is cold if the house-wife isn’t in good humour.

[Cf. Dw. s.v. aoibh.]<gai>


604. Is furasda ceòl a dhèanamh dha-san le’n toil dannsadh.

<eng>It is easy to provide music for someone who likes dancing.<gai>


[TD 114]

605. Is goirid a mharcaicheas esan a gheibh each roimh chiall.

<eng>The person who gets a horse before he gets sense has a short ride.<gai>


606. Is iomadh breacan glas a th’air an fhéill.

<eng>There’s many a grey plaid at the market.
(Uist)

[i.e., there are many of your kind. Cf. no. 580.]<gai>


607. Is iomadh car fliuch fuar a chuireas an saoghal dheth, mar a thubhairt an t-isean ann an roth a’ mhuilinn.

<eng>The world takes many a cold, wet turn, as the chicken said (as it stood) on the mill-wheel.
[Cf. N 257, 9.]<gai>


608. Is iomadh cù coimheach a rinn tabhunn teth am Meudarloch.

<eng>Many a strange dog has barked hotly in Benderloch. (Benderloch)

The opinion of an old man about a south-country farmer who took a farm in the district and introduced methods of work previously unknown there.

[Cf. RC2, p. 497.]<gai>


609. Is iomadh duine laghach a mhill an creideamh.

<eng>Religion has spoiled many a nice man.<gai>


610. Is iomadh neach a tha ’gam aidhseachadh an diugh nach do chuir dad riamh ’gam leasachadh.

<eng>Many a person envies me today who never gave the least help.

[Cf. Dw. s.v. aidhseachadh.]<gai>


611. Is iomadh rud a nì dithis dheònach.

<eng>A willing pair can do many things.<gai>


[TD 115]

612. Is iomadh rud luachmhor a chailleas fear na céilidh is fear a’ chadail.

<eng>The inveterate visitor and the sleepy-head miss many a valuable thing.<gai>


613. Is iomadh sneachd a th’air Maol Odhar;
Is iomadh sruth tha ruith le Lònan;
Is iomadh ceò th’air Tom-na-mòna;
Is iomadh òinseach tha ’n Sròntoilleir.

<eng>There are many snowfalls on Maoloar; many streams flow down [Glen] Lonan; there are many mist-caps on Tom-na-mòna; there are many foolish women in Strontoileir.

[The places mentioned are outside Oban].<gai>


614. Is iongantach an nì th’ann: ann.

<eng>It is a wonderful thing: to be.
(Argyll)

An echo of “Cogito, ergo sum”.<gai>


615. Is ionmhuinne leam na bheil a-muigh—
O’ Bìrinn anns a’ Bhreugaich;
Thug mi oidhche ’na thigh,
Air mhóran bidhe ’s air bheagan aodaich.

<eng>The man who is outside is most dear to me—O’Bìrinn who lives in Breugach; I spent a night in his house, with plenty of food but few clothes.

[The reply of the Earl of Mar on being told that the man who had helped him after the first Battle of Inverlochy (1431) was at his door. See W. J. Watson (ed.), Rosg Gàidhlig, pp. 99-102].<gai>


616. Is ionraic a’ mhèirle na féidh.

<eng>Deer are an innocent theft.

Attriubted to Rob Donn, the Reay bard, when he was forced by interdict to give up poaching deer.<gai>


[TD 116]

617. Is làidir an gobhainn, sgoiltidh e iarunn; ach is treise ’m bàs na ’n gobhainn.

<eng>The blacksmith is strong, he can split iron; but death is stronger than the blacksmith.
(Uist)

[Sim. RC2, p. 498.]<gai>


618. Is làidir luchag fo chruach fheòir.

<eng>A mouse is strong under a haystack.
[Sim. RC2, p. 498.]<gai>


619. Is leibideach an tigh anns nach toill fear eile.

<eng>The house which cannot hold one more is contemptible.<gai>


620. Is leibideach saoghal na sùla.

<eng>The world comprehended by the eye is insignificant.

[i.e., the visible world. C. takes it to apply to the part of the universe seen by man.]<gai>


621. Is lìonmhor asgaill an fhir-thuruis; ’s fheàrr dhuit fuireach air cluain.

<eng>The traveller suffers many mishaps; you are best to stay on land.

[i.e., the traveller by sea.]<gai>


622. Is lìonmhor leisgeil an t-seann duine dhol dhachaidh do’n chill;

Air leth-cheum théid e ’n rathad, ach air leth-cheum cha till.

<eng>An old man makes many excuses for not going home to the churchyard; he will go there with half step, but he’ll not return with half a step.<gai>


623. Is lìonmhor tuilbheuman na bà bronnaich.

<eng>A big-bellied cow meets with many obstacles.

[Cf. Dw. s.v.. tuilbheum. See also Glossary s.v.)<gai>


[TD 117]

624. Is luath air slighe each-iasaid is gad.

<eng>A borrowed horse and a whip are swift on the road.

(Mull)<gai>


625. Is mairg a chanadh a bhràthair ri mac na mnatha coimhich.

<eng>Pity the person who would call a strange woman’s son his brother.
(Uist)

[C. states: “An illegitimate son cannot be depended on to show real brotherly affection.” But the saying probably means that it is undesirable to claim relationship with an illegitimate child. Cf. N 105, 5.]<gai>


626. Is mairg a chrathadh a dheannan salainn air.

<eng>Pity the person who would sprinkle his salt over him.

Said of a worthless character.<gai>


627. Is mairg a chrathadh an dachaidh.

<eng>Pity the person who would shake the home.<gai>


628. Is mairg a dh’itheadh an solus.

<eng>Pity the person who would eat the light.

[i.e., who would spoil a universal privilege (HN).]<gai>


629. Is mairg a thachras an droch cuideachd.

<eng>Pity the person who falls into bad company.
(Uist)

The saying of a hoodie crow which went to visit some doves. A sportsman tired and killed some of the doves, and wounded the crow at the same time.<gai>


630. Is mairg do’n cuilbh an cuan; is fheàrr cluan a dh’ fhearann na cuan a dh’fhearann.

<eng>Pity the person whose source of provision is the sea; a patch of land is better than an ocean of land.

[Cf. Fr. Allan, p. 90, s.v. cuile.]<gai>


[TD 118]

631. Is math a’ bhliadhna a dh’fhóghnas dhi fhéin.

<eng>It’s a good year that looks after itself.<gai>


632. Is math a dh’fhuineas bean a’ mhuilleir;
Is math a dh’fhaodas, is math a chuillean.

<eng>The miller’s wife bakes well; well she may, since her supply is good.

[Cf. Carm. Gad., vi, p. 57, s.v. cuinnlein.]<gai>


633. Is math am biadh feamanaidh aran seagail agus saill ròin.

<eng>Rye bread and seal blubber are good food for gathering seaware.<gai>


634. Is math an aidmheil deagh ghnàithseach.

<eng>Good husbandry is a good profession.
(Uist)<gai>


635. Is math an comharradh air an t-sìde shamhraidh, boillsgeadh dearg a bhith de na soluis fad’ ás.

<eng>It is a good sign of summer weather when distant lights shine with a reddish gleam.<gai>


636. Is math an long a bheir a-mach an caladh o’n d’ fhalbh i.

<eng>It’s a good ship which gains the harbour from which she sailed.

Used when a person re-embraces discarded opinions.

[Or, more generally, when a person returns to an old haunt.]<gai>


637. Is math an tacar ìm is càise is buntàta; cha mhór nach fheàrr e na ’m bàirneach fhéin.

<eng>Butter, cheese and potatoes are good sustenance; they are almost better than the limpet itself.

Mockingly attributed to a Heisker man.<gai>


[TD 119]

638. Is math Càisg air oidhche Chàisg.

<eng>Easter is good when kept on Easter night.

i.e., everything is good in its season.<gai>


639. Is math do bheadradh, ach cùm air.

<eng>Your caressing is good, but keep at it.
(Mull)

The encouragement given by a girl to a backward lover.<gai>


640. Is math fuigheall na foighidinn.

<eng>The dregs of patience are worth having.<gai>


641. Is meanbh duine an aghaidh a’ bhàis.

<eng>A man is small when faced with death.<gai>


642. Is milis fuil nàmhaid, ach is milse fuil caraid.

<eng>The blood of an enemy is sweet, but the blood of a friend is sweeter.

It was once the custom to taste a friend’s blood to indicate undying affection and fidelity.<gai>


643. Is minig a bha ’m pòsadh luath ’na phòsadh truagh, ’s am pòsadh mall ’na phòsadh dall.

<eng>An early marriage was often a poor marriage, and a late marriage was often a blind marriage.

[Sim. RC2, p. 499.]<gai>


644. Is minig a bha rath air aon bhó na cailliche.

<eng>The old woman’s one cow was often lucky.
[Cf. no. 443.]<gai>


645. Is minig a chaidh cù gionach a sgalldadh.

<eng>A greedy dog has often been scalded.

i.e., a forward person often gets into trouble.<gai>


[TD 120]

646. Is minig a dh’fhag dùthchas droch ghalar.

<eng>Heredity has often left behind a bad disease.
(Uist)

[Cf. N 269, 7.]<gai>


647. Is minig a thàinig eagal gu teugmhail.

<eng>Fear has often resulted in strife.<gai>


648. Is misde baile fear ’s a bhara ri falbh.

<eng>A township is the worse for a man who intends to leave.
(Perthshire)

[Sim. Dw. s.v. bara.]<gai>


649. Is mì-shealbhach moch Di-luain gu dol a bhuain na Maighdinn.

<eng>Early on a Monday is unlucky for going to reap the Maiden.

The “<gai>Maighdean<eng>” (“Maiden”) was the last handful of corn to be cut. It was preserved and given as a handsel to horses when ploughing began in the following Spring.

[Cf. Carm. Gad., ii, p. 261, s.v. Di; F. Marian MacNeill, The Silver Bough, ii, pp. 120-3.]<gai>


650. Is mì-shona esan a chailleas a charaid le neòil ghruamach na maidne Earraich.

<eng>Unfortunate is the person who loses his friend because of the gloomy clouds of a Spring morning.

A warning not to pay too much attention to a passing mood.<gai>


651. Is mór as fhiach glainead, mar a thuirt a’ chaile bha suathadh a’ chumain le earball a’ chait.

<eng>Cleanliness is of great value, as the slut said as wiped the pail with the cat’s tail.

[<gai>“mar a thuirt an té”<eng> (HN).]<gai>


[TD 121]

652. Is mór facal gu lughadh.

<eng>A word goes for much until a solemn oath is taken.
(Uist)

[But cf. N 281, 10. Cf. also Waifs and Strays, v, p. 9 and p. 117. See Glossary s.v. lughadh.]<gai>


653. Is mór sàth Mosaig d’a meang fhéin.

<eng>Greedy takes a great fill of her own whey.
(Uist)

A mean woman will not part with anything.

[Sim. RC2, p. 500. Cf. Fr. Allan, p. 181, s.v. miùg.]<gai>


654. Is motha am farbhradh na ’n gnàithseach.

<eng>The outbits are bigger than the main field.
(Uist)

[See Glossary s.v. farbhradh and gnàitheach.]<gai>


655. Is motha gràs air astar.

<eng>Grace is greater at a distance.<gai>

Cf. “Nearer kirk, farther from grace”, and “The nearer Rome, the worse Christian”.<gai>


656. Is nèarach an neach mharbhas meàirleach.

<eng>Happy is the person who kills a thief.
(Uist)<gai>


657. Is olc a’ bhana-mhaighstir a’ bhrù.

<eng>The stomach is a bad mistress.<gai>


657. Is olc a’ ghoile nach blàthaich deoch dhi fhéin.

<eng>It’s a bad stomach which cannot warm a drink for itself.
(Uist)

i.e., which will not retain a drink.

[Cf. N 253, 7; 284, 11; RC2, p. 500.]


[TD 122]

659. Is olc a’ mhuir a ghluaiseas á tàmh.

<eng>It’s a bad sea which rises after a calm.

A sudden storm after a calm is more dangerous as it is unexpected.<gai>


660. Is olc a rinn thu beum a thoirt, ’s nach tug thu fhathast mìr dhomh.

<eng>You acted badly in striking me, when you haven’t yet given me a morsel.
(Perthshire)<gai>


661. Is olc an slachdan na deòir; tha ’n là ’n diugh airson tòrachd ’s an là màireach airson tuireadh.

<eng>Tears are a bad club; today is for pursuing the enemy and tomorrow is for lamentation.

This is attributed to a MacDonald officer at Culloden, when he rebuked a soldier who was weeping over the body of MacDonald of Keppoch.<gai>


662. Is rìgh an slàn.

<eng>A healthy man is a king.
(Uist)<gai>


663. Is ro fhad’ a dh’fhan mi—gus an tug na cait na cluasan dhìom.

<eng>I stayed too long—until the cats bit off my ears.

Said by a person who has been attacked by small fry.<gai>


664. Is sona esan a sheasas air Torr-na-fiughair.

<eng>Happy is the person who stands on the Hill of Expectation.<gai>


665. Is sona imrich na h-òige.

<eng>Happy is he who passes on in youth.

Said of the death of an infant.<gai>


[TD 123]

666. Is suarach an leibidean a mharbhas cuileag.

<eng>Even a trifling mishap can kill a fly.
(Uist)<gai>


667. Is taomboileach an t-iasg;
Is teugmhaileach an t-sealg;
Ach ge b’e dh’àiticheas an talamh,
Cha d’fhàg e falamh riamh e.

<eng>Fishing is uncertain; hunting is risky; but whoever cultivates the land was never left empty by it.

[Cf. N 288, 4; Dw. s.v. taomboileach; no. 565.]<gai>


668. Is tilleadh air gach sian clachan mìne meallain.

<eng>Smooth hailstones cause a change in every kind of weather.
(Argyll)<gai>


669. Is toigh leam an ròn, ach cha toigh leam naidheachd an ròin.

<eng>I like the seal, but I do not like the seal’s tidings.
(Uist)

Before a storm, a seal comes close inshore in search of food.

[Cf. BP, no. 231.]<gai>


670. Is toigh leam treabhadh, ach cha toigh leam fùsbaireachd.

<eng>I like ploughing, but I do not like haphazard digging.
(Perthshire)

[<gai>“treabhadh réidh”<eng> (HN).]<gai>


671. Is toigh le Mór a fine fhéin.

<eng>Marion likes her own clan.
(Uist)<gai>


[TD 124]

672. Is treasa aon òirleach de’n ghille na dà òirleach de’n nighinn.

<eng>One inch of a boy is stronger than two inches of a girl.<gai>


673. Is truimid am màl am mòd.

<eng>The rent is all the heavier because of the food-rent.
(Argyll)

“Mòd” was the name given to the annual donation in kind, over and above the money rent, given by a tenant to a proprietor, and it varied with the size of the holding. Until 1831, the “mòd” of the farm of Auchinreir on Barcaldine Estate was twelve dozen hens’ eggs and two dozen chickens. In place of the chickens, a dozen fully grown hens were accepted. There was a hole to test the eggs in the kitchen dresser of Barcaldine House (<gai>“Tigh Inbhir-dheargain”<eng>). Eggs which passed through the hole were rejected.

[Cf. Carm. Gad., vi, p. 38, s.v. cearc-fearainn.]<gai>


674. Is tu Mac ’Ic Eóghainn as miosa a thàinig ’s as fheàrr a thig.

<eng>You are the worst Mac ’Ic Eóghainn who has come, and the best who will ever come.

An angry woman’s opinion of MacLean of Ardgour.<gai>


675. Is tusa a tha gun ingnean mar a bha Calum-Cille.

<eng>You lack finger-nails, just as St Columba did.

The Devil came to the Saint ten times in the form of a woman to tempt him. The Saint understood who he was, and to show his faith, and his utter conempt for the tempter, he held one after the other of his fingers in a candle name, thus losing all his fingers.<gai>


[TD 125]

L

676. Là Fhèill Brìghde, gheibh an seirbhiseach tuarasdal slàn.

<eng>On St Bridget’s Day, the servant will receive full wages.

This refers to the lengthening day.<gai>


677. Là Fhèill Pàdruig Earraich,
Là nan seachd is fichead sealladh;
Fòghnaidh sin do each ’s do dhuine,
Is fóghnaidh each is duine dha.

<eng>St Patrick’s Day in Spring is the day of twenty-seven sights; these will suffice for horse and man, and horse and man will suffice for them.

The twenty-seven sights of St Patrick’s Day (17th March) are the different kinds of Spring work calling on the farmer at the same time. The number indicates completeness—three times three times three.<gai>


678. Laighidh sgìos a’ ghobha air a’ bhuachaille.

<eng>The blacksmith’s fatigue comes upon the herd.

This means that the blacksmith after a hard day’s work is fresher than the herd who has lolled on the hillside.<gai>


679. Le cù a’ Bharanaich, ’s mi beò!

<eng>By my life, (you’ve been) sired by the Baron’s dog!

Said by <gai>“Am Bard Dòmhnallach”<eng> (“The MacDonald Poet”), an Inverness poet of the nineteenth century,


[TD 126]

to belittle an opponent. Cf. the retort of John MacCodrum to the Skye bard:

<gai>“Fàilt ort fhéin, Iain ’Ic Fhearchair, ’Ic Codrum nan ròn.<eng> (“Welcome, John son of Farquhar, son of Codrum of the seals.”)

<gai>“Fàilt ort fhéin, a mhadaidh; is fios dhomh có thu—mac dìolain cù Fear a’ Choire.”<eng> (“Welcome to you, you hound; I know who you, are—an illegitimate son of the Tacksman of Corrie’s dog.”)

[Opposite p. 145 of his interleaved copy of Sar-Obair nam Bard Gaelach, C. notes that the Skye bard was “the bard of MacKinnon of Strath.” For a note on “Am Bàrd Dòmhnallach”, see TGSI, xlviii, pp. 3-4.]<gai>


680. Le gach bó a boininn agus le gach leabhar a leabhran.

<eng>To every cow belongs its calf and to every book its booklet.

[See no. 156.]<gai>


681. Le roghainn tha cùram.

<eng>Anxiety accompanies choice.
(Skye)<gai>


682. Leaghadh do chridhe ag amharc air.

<eng>Your heart would melt looking at him.

[Said of a person in poor circumstances.]<gai>


683. Leig e a mhaidean le sruth.

<eng>He let his oars go with the current.

i.e. he threw away his means of support.<gai>


684. Leumadh an luchag thairis air.

<eng>A mouse could jump over him.
(Inverness district)

Applied to an easy-going, good-natured man.<gai>


[TD 127]

685. Lite-gharbhain is meala-bhainne ghobhar.

<eng>Porridge of coarse-ground meal and choice goat’s milk.

[Cf. Carm. Gad., vi, p. 79, s.v. garbhan.]<gai>


686 Loch-nam-madadh, ’s tha na madaidh ann.

<eng>Lochmaddy really has hounds in it.

[See nos. 51, 300.]<gai>


687. Lochan dubh Foghal,
An loch as doimhne ’san domhain;
’S tha seachd doimhneachd Loch Foghail
An Loch dubh, domhain Lìghe.

<eng>Dark Loch Foghal is the deepest loch in the world; but dark, deep Loch Lee is seven times deeper than Loch Foghal.
(Uist)

Loch Lee is on Ben Lee in N. Uist.

[The mountain was once a volcano, and its crater forms the bed of the loch. See W. Matheson (ed.), The Songs of John MacCodrum, p. 302, 1.2546, note. C. suggests that Loch Foghal may be Loch Foyle in Ireland. Cf. Carm. Gad., ii, p. 299, s.v. li.]<gai>


688. Loth is bean, tagh i ás a’ cheann.

<eng>Choose a wife and a filly by the head.

A well proportioned head indicates intelligence.<gai>


689. Loth phiollagach is balach peallagach.

<eng>A shaggy filly and a ragged boy.

They are not to be judged by their appearance.<gai>


690. Luach a’ phéighinn airson tasdain.

<eng>A penny’s worth for a shilling.
(Uist)

i.e., a bad bargain.<gai>


[TD 128]

691. Luibh Chaluim-Chille, gun sireadh, gun iarraidh,
Is nèarach am fear a gheibh i;
Buaineam duilleach an t-sonais
Mar a dh’òrduich an t-Ard-rìgh;
Far am faighear i, tha buaidh is sìth.

<eng>Lucky is the person who finds St John’s wort, without looking for it or asking for it; let me pluck the leaves of happiness as the High King commanded; where it is found, there is success and peace.

It was considered lucky to find St John’s wort accidentally, and a sprig was worn as an amulet. The children of Barcaldine, Argyll, on their way to school used to enter a wood by the roadside where the plant grew, shut their eyes and pretend that they found it <gai>“gun sireadh, gun iarraidh”.<eng> The above rhyme was repeated with the additional line <gai>“Is guidheam Dia nach fhaigh mise trod”<eng> (“And I pray God that I’ll not be scolded”).

[Cf. N 302, 3; Fr. Allan, p. 20, s.v. Luibh Chaluim Chille; D. J. MacLeod (ed.), Martin Martin, A Description of the Western Isles of Scotland, p. 347; F. Marian MacNeill, The Silver Bough, i. pp. 82-3; The Highland Monthly, iv, pp. 234-7. See Glossary s.v. Luibh Chaluim-Chille.]<gai>


692. Lus Charoline nach fhàg foill am feòil.

<eng>The corn-cockle which leaves no blemish in the flesh.
(Uist and Skye)

The corn-cockle was supposed to be a panacea. In Skye the saying is attributed to a famous local doctor, Fearchar Lighiche (“Farquhar the Leech”).

[Fearchar Lighiche was an early member of the Beaton medical family, who flourished in the fourteenth century (W. Nicolaiscn (ed.), Proceedings of the The International Congress of Celtic Studies. p. 61). For other sayings attributed to him, see J. F. Campbell, Popular Tales, ii. pp. 361 f. See Glossary s.v. Lus Charoline.]<gai>


[TD 129]

M

693. Ma bheir thu ’n car á d’fhearann, bheir d’fhearann an car asad.

<eng>If you cheat your land, your land will cheat you.<gai>


694 Ma phòsas Ciotach Crotag, ciamar a bhios an t-isean ach ciotach, crotach?

<eng>If Sinister marries Crooked, how can the chick be anything but sinister and crooked.<gai>

[“Ma shuaineas Ciotach ri Crotaig” (HN).]


695. Ma tha i beag, chan eil i bog.

<eng>She may be small, but she’s not soft.<gai>


696. Ma tha pathath ort, thug Dia dhut an t-allt.

<eng>If you are thirsty, God gave you the stream.

[Cf. N 368, 1]<gai>


697. Mac-an-Aba,
Sìol nan gaba,
Cluasan fada,
’S claigean féidh.

<eng>The MacNabs are the breed with big mouths, long ears and deer’s skulls.<gai>


698. MacCailein’s an Rìgh.

<eng>Argyll and the King.

The two most powerful individuals known to Highlanders.

[See no. 512.]<gai>


[TD 130]

699. MacMhaoilein, MacEanruig ’s MacNeachdainn, gheibhear iad air an aon tom.

<eng>MacMillans, Hendersons and MacNaughtons are to be found on the same hillock.

These families lived in Argyll, and probably owed allegiance to the Campbells.<gai>


700. MacPhàidein na circe—ged a dh’fheith e ri ròsdadh, cha d’fheith e ri h-itheadh.

<eng>MacFadyen of the hen—although he waited to roast it, he didn’t wait to eat it.

It is said that MacFadyen was one of the opponents of Wallace in the Wars of Independence. He once prepared himself a hen, but was disturbed by Wallace before he could eat it.

[For a variant of this saying, “current in Mull, in Islay and in Tiree, and probably elsewhere”, see SGS, i (1926), p. 80. Cf. ibid., p. 212.]<gai>


701. Mac Rìgh Breatuinn beag ri bruaich,
Is mairg a chunnaic ’s nach do bhuain.

<eng>Pity the person who saw the little wild thyme on a bank, and did not pluck it.

Like St John’s wort, wild thyme was considered a lucky plant. It was used to treat stomach trouble.

[Cf. Fr. Allan, p. 171, s.v. Lus Mhic Righ Bhreatainn.]<gai>


702. Mach is dhachaidh.

<eng>Out and home again.
(Argyll)

[Used when a person makes a short trip from home.]<gai>


[TD 131]

703. Maistir, a Mhoire, a’ chuinneag,
Is i air làr a’ ghlinne;
Gum pinnticheadh a bainne,
’S gum meudaicheadh a h-ime.

<eng>O Mary, churn the milk-churn in the bottom of the glen; may its milk curdle and its butter increase.
(Uist)

A wish for successful churning.<gai>


704. Manbh mhath mhac ort is laogh bhoireann!

<eng>May you have a good fold of sons and quay calves!

An older woman’s wish for a young girl.

[A Ross-shire variant has<gai> <gai>“Buaidh mhac is laoigh bhoireann ort”.<eng> See The Highlander, 24th June 1876.]<gai>


705. Maor, sagart, is madadh.

<eng>A bailiff, a priest and a hound.
(S. Uist)<gai>


706. Mar a lùbar am maothan, ’s ann a dh’ aomas a’ chraobh.

<eng>The tree will lean in the direction that the twig is bent.<gai>


707. Mar a nì cù a’ chùbair—an rud nach urrainn dha òl, suidhidh e làimh ris.

<eng>Like the cooper’s dog—what he cannot drink, he sits beside.<gai>


708. Mar a rinn Maol-Moire, fàgaidh sinn sin am buil an Fhreasdail.

<eng>As Myles did, we’ll leave that at the disposal of Providence.
(Lismore)

[“Maol-Moire” means literally “the Devotee of Mary”.]<gai>


[TD 132]

709. Mar as tinne an iris, ’s ann as dual dhi briseadh.

<eng>The carrying strap is apt to break when it’s tightest.
(Uist)

[Cf. N 42, 5; 311, 4; BP, no. 228.]<gai>


710. Mar chlach a’ ruith le gleann, feasgar feann fogharaidh; is righneadh an fheasgair earraich mar bhó chaol a’ tighinn gu baile.

<eng>An evanescent autumn evening is like a stone rolling down a glen; and a tenacious spring evening is like a lean cow coming home.
(Uist)

[Cf. N 313, 2; 388, 10; RC2, p. 502; LP, no. 70.]<gai>


711. Mar gheir is aran-eòrna.

<eng>Like grease and barley bread.
(Stratherrick)

Used when two things don’t agree. A travelling tinsmith, who thought that his wife was unfaithful to him, used the phrase to describe the difference between them.<gai>


712. Mar mhadadh ag òl eanraich, ainmean Chloinn Illeathainn—Eachann, Lachainn, Eachann, Lachainn.

<eng>The names of the MacLeans sound like a dog drinking broth—Hector, Lachlan, Hector, Lachlan.

[Cf. RC2, p. 502; The Active Gael, p. 86.]<gai>


713. Marbh thusa bó is marbhaidh mise tairbheann.

<eng>You kill a cow and I’ll kill a parasite.

If the cow dies, all its parasites die with it.<gai>


714. Mas dona Tònliath, chan fheàrr Turrag.

<eng>If Tonlee is bad, Turrag is no better.

A Mull saying, current in Uist. Used when a person changes course to better himself, but without success.<gai>


[TD 133]

715. Mas ealachadh e (al. Mas ealachadh no gradan e), fair dhomh màm.

<eng>If it is pounded grain (al. Whether it is pounded or parched grain), give me a handful.
(Uist)

[Cf. Carm. Gad., vi, p. 65, s.v. <gai>ealachadh.<eng> See Glossary s.v. <gai>ealachadh<eng> and <gai>gradan.]


716. Mas i d’àth-s’ i, bàth i; bàthaidh mis’ i mas m’àth-s’ i.

<eng>If it is your kiln, extinguish it; I’ll extinguish it if it is mine.

[i.e., mind your own business. See TGSI, xlv, p. 21.]<gai>


717. Mas lacha dhuits’ i, is eala dhòmhs’ i.

<eng>If you think it’s a wild duck, I think it’s a swan.<gai>


718. Mas leat an saoghal, is leat daoin’ an domhain.

<eng>If the world is yours, the people of the world are yours too.

[Cf. BP, no. 204.]<gai>


719. Mas teisd mhór, cha teisd mhath.

<eng>If the report is great, it is not a good one.

[i.e., it is not to be trusted. See Glossary s.v. teisd.]<gai>


720. Math ri anduine, math ri seann duine, math ri leanabh beag—trì mathan nach deachaidh riamh am mudha.

<eng>Kindness to an insignificant man, kindness to an old man, kindness to a little child—three kindnesses which were never wasted.

[But cf. N 313, 8, which states the opposite; cf. also MFS, p. 33.]<gai>


[TD 134]

721. Màthair fear-an-tighe, an Donas air ùrlar.

<eng>The mother of the man of the house is the Devil on floor.
(Tiree)

[Does this mean that she rules the roost?]<gai>


722. Meallaidh e ’m buntàta ás a’ choire.

<eng>He can entice potatoes from a pot.

Said of a persuasive person.<gai>


723. Meàirleach saluinn, ’s meàirleach frois,
’S meàirleach an lìn ghuirm ghlais;
Ged gheibheadh gach meàirleach fois,
Chan fhaigh meàirleach an lìn ghlais.

<eng>A thief who steals salt, and a thief who steals seed, and a thief who steals blue-grey lint; though every thief should be pardoned, the thief who steals blue-grey lint shall not.

[See TGSI. xlv, p. 22. Cf. N 391, 4; MFS, p. 44; Carm. Gad., ii, P299, SN. lìon.]<gai>


724. Measar gum bi ùmpaidh glic, nam b’eòl dha a bhith tric ’na thosd.

<eng>A fool would be considered wise if he knew how to keep quiet often.<gai>


725. Miann ròin air bean Chille-Pheadair.

<eng>The Kilpheder wife desires seal flesh.
(Uist)

Used when a person earnestly wishes something. Seals were once relished as food in the Western Isles.<gai>


726. Mil a’ dol am beul a’ Chrochadair.

<eng>Honey going into the Devil’s mouth.

Used when good food is given to a worthless character.<gai>


[TD 135]

727. Mionn nach còir a toirt, cha chòir a gleidheadh.

<eng>An oath which ought not to be made ought not to be kept.
(Uist)<gai>


728. Mionnan a’ mhadaidh-ruaidh do’n Ghobhar Ghlas.

<eng>The oaths of the fox to the Grey Goat.

This is taken from the legend of the Grey Goat, whose kids were eaten by a fox. When she came to enquire about them, the fox stated:

<gai>“Air an droighinn, air an dris, air an usige ruith ’san eas,
Air an adhar os mo chionn, air an talamh tha fo m’bhonn,
Air a’ ghrian anns an iarm, air a’ ghealach seachad siar,
Air na reultan anns a’ chiar, ni’m faca riamh do chuid mheann.”<eng>

“By the blackthorn, by the bramble, by the water flowing in the cataract, by the sky above my head, by the earth beneath my foot, by the sun in the sky, by the moon going west, by the stars in the twilight, I never saw your kids.”

[i.e., false oaths. See J. F. Campbell, Popular Tales, iii, pp. 91-3 and p. 102; Carm. Gad., ii, p. 242, s.v. ceabhar.]<gai>


729. Mionnan Dhòmhnaill na Cùir ’s e ’na sheasamh air ùir Challaird.

<eng>Donald of Coor’s oaths while standing on Callart soil.

[Used of a person who, when asked for a loan, says that he has nothing, even although he has money in his pocket. The saying originated when a farmer, <gai>“Dòmhnall Mór na Cùir”<eng> (“Big Donald of Coor”), was arbiter in a land dispute. Standing on the disputed property, he swore that he was on Callart soil, Callart


[TD 136]

being one of the townships claiming the land and the one to which he himself belonged. This was true, in so far as he had put some Callart soil in his boots before leaving home! See TGSI, xlv, pp. 23-4.]<gai>


730. Mìr miadh am meadhon blianaich.

<eng>A fat bit in the middle of lean meat.
(Uist)

Used when a person from a bad family shows distinction.<gai>


731. Mo chomunn-sa is comunn Iain,
Comunn dithis gun chéill;
An rud as leamsa, ’s le Iain,
An rud ’s le Iain, ’s leis fhéin.

<eng>My association with John is the association of two silly folk; what is mine is John’s, what is John’s is his own.
(Uist)

[Cf. N 317, 7.]<gai>


732. Mo ghaol air do ghlug-glug ’s cha b’e glag-glag a’ mhinisteir.

<eng>I much prefer your glug-glug to the minister’s clack-clack.
(Islay)

Attributed to a man who was reprimanded by the minister for some misdemeanour. He was not in the least penitent, and as the minister poured him a glass of whisky, he spoke as above.<gai>


733. Moit nam Baoghlach.

<eng>The conceit of Benbecula people.
(Uist)<gai>


734. Moladh an fhithich air a’ chnàmh—’ga lomadh.

<eng>The raven’s commendation of the bone—to strip it.

[Cf. N 190, 10.]<gai>


[TD 137]

735, Mort an Càirinis!

<eng>There’s murder in Carinish!
[See no. 793.]<gai>


736. Mu choinneamh a chéile, mar a tha Dubhaird ’s Dùn-ollaimh.

<eng>Opposite each other, like Duart and Dunollie.

Duart Castle, the seat of the MacLeans of Duart, is situated in the south-east of Mull, just above the shore; Dunollie Castle, the seat of the MacDougalls of Lorn, is on the mainland opposite, beside Oban.<gai>


737. Muc, madadh is maraiche.

<eng>A pig, a dog and a sailor. (Mull)<gai>


738. Muileach is Ileach is donas.

<eng>A Mull man, an Islay man and a devil.

[Cf. N 110, 5; no. 214.]<gai>


739. Mur dèan e là buana, nì e là chnuap chnò.

<eng>If the day does not suit corn-cutting, it will do for munching nuts.

i.e., do what circumstances permit.<gai>


740. Mur toigh leat mi, fàg mo rìoghachd!

<eng>If you don’t like me, leave my kingdom!

[Cf. N 21, 4.]<gai>


[TD 138]

N

741. Na abair do shàr-fhacal gus an oidhche roimh d’ bhàs.

<eng>Do not speak your finest word until the night before your death.

i.e., in case you cannot live up to it.

[Cf. N 2l4, 6; 322, 3; BP, no. 229; LP, no. 34.]<gai>


742. Na ainmich bó air buachaille; bheirear bhuaith i feasgar.

<eng>Do not ascribe a cow to a herd; it will be taken from him at evening.

A herd’s charge belongs to another.

[Cf. N 49, 1; Fr. Allan, p. 23, s.v. ainmeachas.]<gai>


743. Na buin ri uibhean eòin-guir; is le Dia an t-àl.

<eng>Do not touch the eggs of a brooding bird; the brood belongs to God.

(Uist)<gai>


744. Na dèan óbh-obagaich mu shnàthad tàilleir.

<eng>Do not make a fuss about a tailor’s needle.

A warning not to interfere with small but dangerous things.<gai>


745. Na iarr an tràigh ri muir-làn ’s am maorach a-stigh agad.

<eng>Do not go to the shore during high water when you have shellfish at home.

i.e., do not look for what you cannot get when you have enough at hand.<gai>


[TD 139]

746 Na òl tiugh e ’s gun an stuth ach tana.

<eng>Do not take gulps when the liquid is thin.

Used when a fuss is made about a matter.<gai>


747. Na trì nithean as suaraiche th’ann: uaisle gun chuid, marag gun gheir, agus pòg o bhus lom.

<eng>The three most contemptible things that exist: pride without means, a pudding without fat, and a kiss from a mean mouth.

[Cf. N 375, 1; MFS, p. 42.]<gai>


748. Na trì nithean bu choibhneile thachair rium riamh—mo mhàthair, mo dhachaidh ’s mo sporan.

<eng>The three kindest things I ever met—my mother, my home and my purse.<gai>


749. “Nach mi bha truagh,” arsa Mosag, “chuir mi m’ ulbhean uile fo’n aon chirc.”

<eng> “Wasn’t I pitiful,” said Greed, “I put all my eggs under one hen.”<gai>


750. Nach tu a shluig an t-ìm an oidhche mhìn a rugadh tu! Nach cùm thu ’n glug agad fhéin?

<eng>You swallowed a large amount of butter on the calm night you were born! Can’t you keep the cluck to yourself?

A saying about the people of Eigg, whose speech is distinguished by a catch in the voice. [This is known as “<gai>glug Eigeach”<eng>. Cf. Carm. Gad., vi, p. 84, s.v. <gai>glug.]


751. Nàire nan con ’sa Charghas.

<eng>The modesty of dogs during Lent.

As food would be scarce, dogs would be particularly hungry during this period. The saying is ironic.<gai>


[TD 140]

752. Nam biodh a ceann fhéin air an nathair, sgriosadh i ’n saoghal.

<eng>If the serpent had its own head, it would destroy the world.

The reference would seem to be to the bruising of the serpent’s head in the Bible [Genesis 3: 15].<gai>


753. Nam biodh cuimhn’ air a’ mhath a bha, ’s e am math a bha a bhitheadh.

<eng>If the good things of the past were remembered, the good things of the past would still be there.

Said by a young girl who was deserted by her lover, when she heard the sound of merriment at his wedding to another girl.

[Cf. N 83, 1.]<gai>


754. Nam biodh ùmpaidh ’na thosd, bhiodh e glic.

<eng>If a fool kept silent, he would be considered wise.

[Cf. N 313, 11.]<gai>


755. Nam bu tu Brianag, bu tu grian an t-saoghail.

<eng>If you were Brianag, you would be the world’s sun.

Alternatively:

<gai>Nam bu tu Brianag bhòidheach, bu tu donnag an t-saoghail.<eng>

If you were pretty Brianag, you would be the world’s pet.

[See Glossary s.v. Brianag.]<gai>


756. Nan robh fhios aig Cloinn nan Gàidheal
Ciod bu phrìs do bhàrr an fhraoich,
No do ubh na circe(-fraoich),
Bu daoire bhitheadh cearc na bó,
’S bu daoire bhìtheadh gleann na srath.

<eng>If the children of the Gaels only knew the value of the tips of the heather, or of the egg of the grouse,


[TD 141]

a grouse would be dearer than a cow, and a glen would be dearer than a strath.

This is attributed to the <gai>“Cailleach Bheithireach”<eng> (“Thunderbolt Hag”) who lived in Glengairn, but it appears to be an observation of modern times about the value of grouse-moors.

[The name “<gai>Cailleach Bheithireach<eng>” may be a variant of “<gai>Cailleach Bheur<eng>”—the name of the hag who was thought to have made the Western Isles. See T. M. Murchison (ed), The Prose Writings of Donald Lamont, pp. 199-200; P. MacCana, Celtic Mythology, pp. 94-5. Cf. J. Grant, Legends of the Braes o’ Mar, p. 161.]<gai>


757. Nar leigeadh Dia gun goirinn slaightear dheth, ach cha bhi iad uile cruinn mur bi Baldaidh ann.

<eng>God forbid that I should call him a rogue, but their number will not be complete without Baldy.

[<gai>“mur bi Donnach’ ann’<eng> (HN).]<gai>


758. Nì am bàs bochd agus beairteach.

<eng>Death makes poor and makes rich.<gai>


759. Nì an duine glic dioghlum air gach achadh.

<eng>The wise man gleans on every field.

[Cf. no. 566.]<gai>


760. Nì bheil slad an seid an fhithich nach eil an cridhe Iain.

<eng>There is no theft in the raven’s nest which is not to be found in John’s heart.
(Skye)

Used of a covetous person.

[Cf. Carm. Gad., vi. p. 74. s.v. <gai>fitheach.]


[TD 142]

761. Nì biadh ùr is seann aodach gille èasgaidh.

<eng>Fresh food and old clothes make a nimble lad.<gai>


762. Nì cù dranndan thar cnàimh.

<eng>A dog will snarl over a bone.

[Cf. N 127, 4.]<gai>


763. Nì Glagag bun-dòchais de na Croisean-Moire.

<eng>Silly will found her hope on the Virgin’s crosses.

Said when one hopes in anything trifling.

[See no. 346.]<gai>


764. Nì sinn gun daimheach ach cha dèan sinn gun choimhearsnach.

<eng>We’ll manage without a relative but not without a neighbour.

[Cf. RC2, p. 504.]<gai>


765. Nì thusa snàmh tèimh, mar nì cuileagan an t-Sìthein.

<eng>You swim quietly, like the midges of Shian.
(Benderloch)<gai>


766. Nì tigh lom bean-tighe fhàrsannach.

<eng>A bare house causes a housewife to wander.
(Uist)<gai>


767. Niall na fìrinn.

<eng>Truthful Neil.
(Uist)

The name given ironically to one known to be untruthful. See TGSI, xlv, p. 24.]<gai>


768. Nighean dubh an t-suith!

<eng>The black daughter of the soot!
(Uist)

The name given to the last daughter to get married.<gai>


[TD 143]

O

769. Obair fir gun chéill,
Dol a dh’ionnsaigh féill,
Gun sporan, gun spréidh.

<eng>Only a foolish man goes to market without a purse and without cattle.
(Uist)

[Cf. N 206, 2.]<gai>


770. Og no sean MacUidhein, chun nam breug.

<eng>Whether a MacGiven is young or old, he’s untruthful.
(Uist)

MacGiven is a surname found in Uist. (The same is said of Nicolsons in the district).<gai>


771. Oidhche chiùin, cheathagach,
Is i soilleir, rionnagach,
A’ ghaoth a-nuas ’s an t-uisg’ a-nios,
A’ reodhadh gu teann, teann,
’S a’ ghealach ’na seasamh ri ceann an tighe.

<eng>A calm, misty night, bright and starry, the wind from the north and the rain from the south, keenly, keenly freezing, and the moon shining steadily on the end of the house.
(Argyll)

[A man had treated his parents meanly by giving them only the liver of a fatted cow. When he asked his mother subsequently what kind of night it was, she gave the reply above. Her son remarked, <gai>“Is iongantach an oidhche th’ann”<eng> (“It is indeed a strange night”), to which his mother replied, <gai>“Chan eil i nas iongantaiche na am mart-làmhaig a bhith gu léir ’na grùdha”<eng> (“It is no more strange than the fatted cow being all liver”). See TGSI, xlv, pp. 26-7. Cf. N 68, 5.]<gai>


[TD 144]

P

772. Pàighear e latha faidhir Dhùn-an-tàilleir.

<eng>It will be paid on Dùn-an-tàilleir market day

i.e., never. Dùn-an-tàilleir is a small village in Perthshire with no market day.<gai>


773. Piseach is gràs ort!

<eng>May success and grace be yours!
(Argyll)

A parting wish.<gai>


774. Port ùr air seana phìob.

<eng>A new tune on old pipes.
(Uist)

[Cf. N 338, 4.]<gai>


775. Pruidh, deirist, a bhó riabhach! ’S fheàirrd thu buarach!

<eng>Come, stand still, brindled cow! You would be better of a fetter!
(Perthshire)

Applied to a person in too much of a hurry to do anything properly.<gai>


[TD 145]

R

776. Rachainn gu mullach monaidh leis latha ’sam bith.

<eng>I would go to the top of a hill with him any day.
(Lismore)

A saying of challenge or defiance.<gai>


777. Rath a’ bhùirn-ionnlaid ort!

<eng>May you have the luck of the washing-water!
(Uist)

It was thought that good luck followed the last person to wash in a basin of water.<gai>


778. Rath gun ealain air an rath!

<eng>May good luck without any skill accompany success! [?]
(Uist)

A charm against fairy influence, deriving its effect from the different meanings of “rath”.

[Cf. N 49, 6; Carm. Gad., ii, p. 319, s.v. rath.]<gai>


779. Reic e a bhalachan air a bhonnachan.

<eng>He sold his little boy for a little cake.

Applied to a man who marries an aged but wealthy wife.

[<gai>“airson a bhonnachain”<eng> (HN).]<gai>


780. Reic e a phiseach air a bhonnach.

<eng>He sold his good fortune for a cake.

Used of a person who makes a silly bargain for immediate profit.<gai>


[TD 146]

781. Reothairt nan eun.

<eng>The birds’ spring tide.
(Uist)

The name for the low ebbs of the Equinoxes, when there is more disturbance of the fore-shore, and more food for birds.

[Cf. Fr. Allan, p. 200, s.v. Reothairt mór nan ian.]<gai>


782. Riar is fàs an leanaibh bhig:
Brochan is bainne a chur ’na ghob,
A chur a laighe bog, blàth,
’S gun an cè a thoirt de chuid.

<eng>How to satisfy a little child and make him grow: put gruel and milk in his mouth, send him to bed snug and warm, and do not take the cream from his share.
[Cf. Carm. Gad., vi, p. 8, s.v. anagladh.]<gai>


783. Rinn e balgam ronnach dheth.

<eng>He made a slavery mouthful of it.
(Argyll)

i.e., a constant theme of talk.<gai>


784. Rinn e glagan-gnàthaichte dheth.

<eng>He made it a subject of continual chatter.
(Argyll)

[Cf. no. 783 above.]<gai>


785. Ròineag an ìm is càilean am brochan.
<eng>A hair in butter and a corn-husk in gruel.

Two annoying things.

[Cf. BP, no. 232.]<gai>


[TD 147]

786. Ròmhanaich na Samhna.

<eng>The mugginess of Hallowmas.

[This refers to the quiet weather of late Autumn. See Carm. Gad., vi, p. 120, s.v.<gai> ròmhanaich;<eng> Glossary,<gai> ròmhanaich.]<gai>


787. Ruith nan cailleach—leis a’ bhruthach.

<eng>The way old women run—downhill.<gai>


[TD 148]

S

788. Sàbaid nan each.

<eng>The horses’ Sabbath.
(Uist)

Applied when there is no public worship, and a person rests all day like any of the lower animals.<gai>


789. Samhradh breac riabhach [còmhla] ris an t-samhradh gheal ghrianach.

<eng>A dull, changeable summer as well as a bright, sunny summer.
(Uist)

A person must take bad seasons with good.<gai>


790. Saoghal fada, sona dhuit,
Do choluinn fallain, slàn,
Do bhoth gun bhoinne snighe ann,
Do chiste-mine làn.

<eng>May you have a long, happy life, and a sound, healthy body; a cottage which does not leak, and a meal-chest which is (always) full.

[Variants of this verse are frequently heard at weddings throughout the Highlands.]<gai>


791. Seachainn mo cheann is glac m’earball.

<eng>Leave my head alone and grasp my tail.
(Uist)

[The instructions of a tail-less fox to a wolf which attempted to remove a lamb from a stagnant pit and was in danger of drowning. See TGSI xlv, pp. 27-8.]<gai>


[TD 149]

792. Seachd bliadhna do’n chat,
’S e gu h-aotrom aighearach;
A-mach uaith sin,
Ceann trom cadalach.

<eng>For seven years a cat is lights and playful; from then on it is a heavy sleepy-head.

[Cf. N 344, 11; Carm. Gad., ii. p. 322; Fr. Allan, p. 144, s.v., <gai>gollacheannach.]


793. Seachd coin deug Chàirinis.

<eng>The seventeen dogs of Carinish.

The name given to the inhabitants of Carinish in N. Uist by the rest of the Uist people.
[Cf. no. 735.]<gai>


794. Seachd sgadain, sàth bradain,
Seachd bradain, sàth ròin;
Seachd ròin, sàth muice-mara big’,
Seachd mucan-mara beaga, sàth muice-mara móire’;
Seachd mucan-mara mora, sàth cionnanain-crò,
Seachd cionnanain-crò, sàth mìol mhór a’ chuain.

<eng>Seven herrings, a full meal for a salmon,
Seven salmon, a full meal for a seal;
Seven seals, a full meal for a small whale,
Seven small whales, a full meal for a big whale;
Seven big whales, a full meal for a chief whale,
Seven chief whales, a full meal for the great monster of the sea.

[Cf. RC2, p. 504; Dw. s.v. sàth; Carm. Gad., ii, p. 322, s.v. seachd.]<gai>


795 Seall thusa dhòmhs’ an seotaire, agus seallaidh mise dhuitsa leisgean. (al. meàirleach).

<eng>You show me a skulker and I’ll show you a sluggard (al. a thief).

[Cf. Dw. s.v. <gai>leisgean.]


[TD 150]

796. Searbhanta Mhic Dhòmhnaill Dhuibh.

<eng>Lochiel’s servant.

i.e., the east wind in harvest, welcome in a rainy district like Lochaber.<gai>


797. Seileach nan allt is calltuinn nan creag,
Feàrna an lóin is beithe nan eas;
Uinnsean an dubhair is darach na gréine,
Leamhan a’ bhruthaich is iubhar an lèana.

<eng>The willow at streams, the hazel on rocks, the alder at a bog, and the birch at water-falls; the ash in the shade and the oak in the sun, the lime on the hill, and the yew on the plain.

The most favourable situations for the trees named.

[Cf. N 346, 3.]<gai>


798. Seòl Maol-an-uachdair an t-slighe do’n àirigh.

<eng>Show Cream-servant the way to the sheiling.

[A sarcastic remark. One exceptionally fond of cream would know the way to the sheiling.]<gai>


799. Seun air an Tì.

<eng>A blessing on the Being.

[C. comments that “there seems to be a mixture of paganism and Christianity in this saying, heard on the Long Island.” See Glossary s.v. <gai>seun.]


800. Sgamhan coin is sgamhan sagairt, is coltach iad ri chéile.

<eng>The lungs of a dog and the lungs of a priest resemble each other.

Attributed to a notorious Sutherland robber, Donald MacMhurchaidh, or MacMurchow. The priest of Applecross passed one day and found him building a


[TD 151]

house which was almost finished. The priest said, <gai>“Tha aon choire air an tigh.”<eng> (“The house has one fault.”) Donald was too proud to ask what the fault was, but he discovered finally that it had no door. In anger he immediately sent two of his sons to overtake the priest and bring back his lungs. Having no desire to kill the man, however, they told him their errand and killed a dog, bringing back its lungs instead. Their father greeted them with the above words.<gai>


801. Sgaoil do shiùil is thig a’ ghaoth.

<eng>Spread your sails and the wind will come.<gai>


802. Sgath na nathrach ort!

<eng>The sloughing of the serpent be yours!

A malediction; a woman’s wish for one with child.<gai>


803. Sgiolcaidh am buntàta Sgiathanach ás an rùsg gu bàrr a’ chroinn.

<eng>The Skye potato will jump out of its skin to the top of the mast.

It was said that if a Skye potato was pressed from one end between the finger and thumb, the skin would burst and the potato, being wet, would jump a distance.

[Cf. Dw. s.v.<gai> sgiolc.]<gai>


804. Sgòdagag na luaith, fuath a’ chlachain.

<eng>The vain girl of the ash is the contempt of the village.
(Argyll)

i.e., one who is proud at home, where she does menial chores, is scorned outside.<gai>


805. Sguir ’s bi rium, ’s cum greiseag fhathast mi.

<eng>Stop, continue, and keep me a short while yet.

The words of a girl to her lover.

[Cf. RC2, p. 505.]<gai>


[TD 152]

806. Shiubhail e mar a shiubhail Eilidh—gu dubh, dona.

<eng>He died as Helen did—in a dark, evil way.
(Skye)<gai>


807. Shuidh i air an lic-bonnaich.

<eng>She sat on the toasting-stone.
(Uist)

i.e., she became lazy.<gai>


808. Sinn fhéin, ’s sinn fhéin, Cloinn Tolla Ghlasdruim.

<eng>Ourselves, and ourselves, the MacColls of Glasdruim.

Said by friends to friends. The MacColls of Glasdruim in Glen Creran held the chieftainship of the sept.

[The form “Tolla” is attested in HN, and is probably a dialectal variant of “Colla”.]<gai>


809. Sluig slàinte, cnàmh t’an-shocair gun teugmhail.

<eng>Swallow good health, and digest your discomfort without any objection.

Said by a Morar woman, when she was giving medicine to her young son.<gai>


810. So, so, thigibh is ceannaichibh! An rud a bha tasdan an dé, chan eil e ach trì gròd an diugh.

<eng>Here, here, come and buy! The thing that cost a shilling yesterday is only three groats today.
(Uist)

The cry of a Cheap John at a market in N. Uist. A groat was worth fourpence.<gai>


811. Solus Sathurna ’san fhogharadh, bidh e aona chuid ’na righ air seachd, no gabhaidh e ’n cuthach seachd uairean.

<eng>The harvest moon which is new on a Saturday will either be a king over seven moons, or it will go mad seven times.


[TD 153]

i.e., it will bring continuous good weather, or the opposite.

[Cf. Carm. Gad., ii, p. 261, s.v. Di.]<gai>


812. Sop air sùil an nì tha seachad.

<eng>Put a wisp on the eye of what is past.
(Uist)

i.e., forget the past. The phrase arose from the custom of covering the face of a dead body with cloth, if available, but if not, with grass.

[Cf. N 6, 9.]<gai>


813. Spealtaidh e an fhaodail le ghial.

<eng>He will smash the treasure-trove with his jaw.

Said of a greedy person.

[Sim. Dw. s.v. faodail.]<gai>


814. Sporain ghóbhlach de òr a’ Phrionnsa.

<eng>Forked purses of the Prince’s gold.

A reference to the form of purse used during the ’Forty-five.<gai>


815. Suathadh i i fhéin leis an uisge shalach—tha e cho math rithe fhéin.

<eng>Let her wipe herself with the dirty water—it is as good as herself.

Said of a woman who takes up with or marries a man of inferior rank.<gai>


816. Suidhe mic an tigh athar,
Suidhe farsuing, fial;
Suidhe athar an tigh mic,
Suidhe’s glùn ’na chliathaich.

<eng>When a son stays in his father’s house, he is gener-


[TD 154]

ously and hospitably received; but when a father stays in his son’s house, he has a knee in his side.<gai>


817. Sùilean goibhre an cinn bhan gu taghadh fhear.

<eng>Women have goats’ eyes in their heads for choosing men.

[Cf. N 66, 8; Carm. Gad., ii, p. 288; RC2, p. 505; no. 862.]<gai>


818. Suipear gun soillse oidhch’ Fhéill Brìghde; suipear le soillse Là Fhéill Pàdruig.

<eng>Supper is eaten without daylight on St Bridget’s night; supper can be eaten by daylight on St Patrick’s Day.

St Bridget’s Day is 1st February; St Patrick’s Day is 17th March.

[Cf. N 350, 14; M, no. 499.]<gai>


819. Suiridhe mnatha fad’ o bhaile ’s té an lub an dùnain.

<eng>Wooing a woman far from home, when one can be found in the dung-hill pool.

Applied when a person looks for something far away, when what will do is near at hand and easy to reach.

[Cf. N 351, 1; RC2, p. 505.]<gai>


[TD 155]

T

820. Tachdaidh an gionach na coin.

<eng>Greed will choke dogs.

[Sim RC2, p. 505.]<gai>


821. Tachraidh an droch shìde ri neach a-muigh, ged nach toir e leis o’n tigh i.

<eng>Bad weather will meet a man outside, without his taking it from home.

i.e., begin the day’s work without anticipating trouble.<gai>


822. Tachraidh sinn fhathast!

<eng>We shall meet again!<gai>


823. Teirgidh bàrr mór is fóghnaidh bàrr beag.

<eng>A large crop will run out, but a small crop will suffice.
(Skye)

A small crop will be well looked after.

[Sim BP, no. 251.]<gai>


824. Tha a bhàt’ air bhogadh.

<eng>His boat is afloat.
(Uist)

Used of a person who is in a good line of business.<gai>


825. Tha a’ chroich ’na crois do’n Eireannach.

<eng>The Irishman thinks that the gallows is a cross.

[This may mean that the Irishman considers death by hanging to be a noble sacrifice.]<gai>


[TD 156]

826. Tha a’ chron sin air an latha Earraich—bidh an dara ceann dheth tioram.

<eng>The Spring day suffers from the fault that one end of it is dry.

[See no. 503.]<gai>


827. Tha a fuil ’s a feòil ’na craicionn fhéin.

<eng>Her blood and flesh are within her own skin.

Said of a woman who has had no children.<gai>


828. Tha a’ Ghàidhlig soirbh ri giùlan.

<eng>Gaelic is easily carried about.<gai>


829. Tha a’ mharcachd-shìth air.

<eng>He suffers from fairy-passing.
(Uist)

[Used of paralysis, supposed to have been caused by a fairy in the shape of a dormouse passing over the limb or part affected. See TGSI, xlv, p. 28.]<gai>


830. Tha am port a réir na coise.

<eng>The tune corresponds to the foot.

A metaphor from dancing. Applied to any work which is, like the worker, good or bad.<gai>


831. Tha am pòsadh coltach ri seillean—tha mil ann ’s tha gath ann.

<eng>Marriage is like a bee—it contains both honey and a sting.<gai>


832. Tha an droch dhuine a’ gabhail an aiseig ri oidhche dhorcha dhoineannach Gheamhraidh ’s a bhàta briste.

<eng>The wicked man crosses the ferry in a broken boat on a dark, stormy Winter night.
(Uist)

This refers to crossing the river of death.<gai>


[TD 157]

833. Tha an fhadhail ri gabhail a-null ’s a-nall.

<eng>The ford has to be crossed there and back.
(Uist)<gai>


834. Tha an fhìrinn corr uair ’na béisd.

<eng>Truth is sometimes a beast.<gai>


835. Tha an Grioglachan a’ call a chùrsa naoi oidhchean roimh’n Nollaig Mhóir.

<eng>The Pleiades lose their course nine nights before Christmas.

i.e., “Homer sometimes nods”.<gai>


836. Tha aon cheann air a h-uile rud, ach tha dà cheann air a’ mharaig.

<eng>Everything has one end, but a pudding has two.
(Perthshire)

[Cf. N 10, 6.]<gai>


837. Tha beag an asgaidh agad dheth.

<eng>You got very little for nothing.
(Uist)

[i.e., you made a bad bargain.]<gai>


838. Tha bior troimh theanga.

<eng>There is a spit of wood through his tongue.

Slanderers or liars used to be punished by having a sharp piece of wood thrust through the point of their tongue, and being compelled to stand for a time in a public place.<gai>


839. Tha Cloinn Choinnich ’s Cloinn Choinnich ann.

<eng>There are MacKenzies and MacKenzies.

[i.e. it is unwise to generalise.]<gai>


[TD 158]

840. Tha cóig seòrsachan bhurraidhean ann; ’s ann de’n chóigeamh seòrsa tha thusa.

<eng>There are five kinds of fools; you belong to the fifth kind.

i.e., to the worst kind.
[Cf. N 358, 2.]<gai>


841. Tha coin chon ann, agus coin dhaoine.

<eng>There are dogs of the canine species, and dogs of the human species.<gai>


842. Tha cualach a’ ghille leisg ort.

<eng>You carry the lazy lad’s burden.

[i.e., a very light burden. Cf. RC2, p. 506; BP, no.267.]<gai>


843. Tha dà thaobh air a’ Mhaoil agus seachd seallaidhean dhith.

<eng>There are two sides to the headland and seven different views of it.

[i.e., there are several different ways of seeing the same thing. In Argyll, the headland is taken to be the Mull of Kintyre. Cf. N 356, 6; RC2, p. 506.]<gai>


844. Tha daor-an-ceannach aig an duine bhochd eadhon air cadal na h-oidhche.

<eng>A poor man pays dearly even for a night’s sleep. [Sim. Dw. s.v. <gai>daor.]


845. Tha dia mór nan Camshronach againn fhéin a’ tighinn dachaidh, is tòisichidh a’ mheàirle mar a bha i riamh.

<eng>Our own great god of the Camerons is coming home, and thieving will begin just as it always was.


[TD 159]

Said by a Lochaber man when he heard that Lochiel had his forfeited estate restored to him.

[After the translation, C. adds in brackets, “Mary MacKellar”.]<gai>


846. Tha dòigh air a h-uile nì; tha dòigh air cur an eòrna.

<eng>There’s a way of doing everything; there’s a way of sowing barley.
(Argyll)

Two alternative endings are <gai>“buain fraoich”<eng> (“cutting heather”—Uist) and <gai>“cutadh sgadain”<eng> (“gutting herring”—Skye).<gai>


847. Tha duine is ainmhidh buailteach do cheithir galaran fichead; galar airson gach uair ’san latha.

<eng>Man and beast are liable to twenty-four diseases; a disease for every hour of the day.
(Hebrides)<gai>


848. Tha e cho mór ri cnoc mu’m faic neach a lochd fhéin.

<eng>A man’s fault is as big as a hill before he sees it himself.<gai>


849. Tha e ro mhór airson feannaig is ro bheag airson croit.

<eng>It is too big to be a lazy-bed and too small to be a croft.

Said by a sailor on the cross-trees of his ship.<gai>


850. Tha iad lìonmhor do’n aithne Iain Amadam.

<eng>There are many who know John the Fool.
(Skye)<gai>


851. Tha làmhan an iasgair nas glaine na làmhan na bannachdaig.

<eng>The fisherman’s hands are cleaner than those of the dairy-maid.
(Skye)<gai>


[TD 160]

852. Tha laogh ann a dh’fhaodar a mharbhadh.

<eng>There’s a calf which can be killed.
(Argyll)

Used when a person is unwilling to use something of value for a small return, when an inferior instrument may be found.

(<gai>“Tha laogh bó ann”<eng> (HN).]<gai>


853. Tha mi as ionnais, mar bha am Barra-breac gun phìobaire.

<eng>I am without it, as Barbreck was without a piper.
(Argyll)

[Used when a person lacks anything which should normally be in his possession. The Laird of Barbreck was reputedly too mean to keep a piper, and on one occasion asked the piper of his relative, the Laird of of Craignish, to play for him. See TGSI, xlv, p. 29.]<gai>


854. The mi’n eatorras.

<eng>I am middling.
(Badenoch)

The full form of this punning phrase is:

<gai>Tha mi’n eatorras mar tha ’m baile ’m Bàideanach.<eng>

I am middling like the village in Badenoch.

There is a place in the district named Eadaras.

[This is Etteridge in English. MacBain gives the Gaelic form “Eatrais”. See TGSI, xvi, p. 195.]<gai>


855. The na sìthichean a’ maistreadh.

<eng>The fairies are churning.
(Uist)

[It was believed that on certain days of the week, the fairies could be heard churning the weekly supply of milk in the knoll. See TGSI, xlv, p. 30.]<gai>


[TD 161]

856. Tha roghainn aig a’ cheud fhear de na ràimh.

<eng>The first man (in the boat) has his choice of the oars.<gai>


857. Tha sin cho cuimseach ri slige-chreachainn Dhòmhnaill Mhóir.

<eng>That is as moderate as Big Donald’s scallop-shell.
(Harris)

When Big Donald was ill, the doctor advised him to take a stimulant in moderation, a shell-full at a time. He chose the biggest scallop-shell he could find.<gai>


858. Tha siubhal sìth aig bàta tòrraidh.

<eng>A funeral barge has a peaceful passage.

An island saying. Even the weather respects the dead.<gai>


859. Tha slabhraidh gun fheum ann an tigh MhicUisdein.

<eng>There is an unused pot-hanger in MacUisdein’s house.
(Uist)

[Attributed to a Uist man, MacUisdein, who was unable to give his retainers their usual Christmas Day meal of seal flesh because of stormy weather. See TGSI, xlv, p. 31.]<gai>


860. Tha solus dha fhéin aig gach naomh.

<eng>Every saint has his own light.
(Uist)<gai>


861. Tha sud agam-sa ge b’oil leis na madaidh aig a bheil am fodar.

<eng>I have that in spite of the hounds which have the fodder.
(Skye)

An echo of the “dog in the manger”.<gai>


[TD 162]

862. The sùil gobhair an ceann nam fear a thaobh nam ban; is sùil seobhaig an ceann nam ban a thaobh nam fear.

<eng>Men have a goat’s eye as regards women, and women have a hawk’s eye as regards men.
[Cf. no. 817.]<gai>


863 Tha thusa mar a tha thu, a Chlach-shùileach, tha thu mar a tha thu.

<eng>You are just the same, Staring-eye, you are just the same.
(Skye)

A saying of contempt.<gai>


864. Tha tom ’sa bhealach.

<eng>There’s a bush in the gateway.

A bush was formerly used as a gate.

[Sim. Dw., s.v. tom.)<gai>


865. Thachair dhi mar a thachair do’n chat a chaidh do’n eas.

<eng>She suffered the same fate as the cat that went to the waterfall.

[i.e., she got into trouble. Cf. N 348, 7.]<gai>


866. Thàinig e gu h-aon-deug.
It came to one more than ten.

<eng>i.e., it reached extremity.

[Cf. no. 102.]<gai>


867. Thàinig mi o Chìogain, ’s thàinig mi o Chuigean;
Thàinig mi o Leaca-bonnaich, ’s thàinig mi o chùl an doruis;
’S ma dh’fhaodas, thig mi bhuat-sa.


[TD 163]

<eng>I escaped from Ciogan and I escaped from Cuaigean; I escaped from Leaca-bonnaich, and I escaped from behind the door; and if I may, I’ll escape from you.

[According to Carm. Gad., ii, p. 285, s.v. <gai>Geigean,<eng> this was used by boys at play.]<gai>


868. Thàinig Moisean gu Calum-Cille; chual’ e Calum-Cille a’ comhradh ri Neach nach robh a làthair; theich Moisean.

<eng>The Devil came to St Columba; he heard St Columba converse with One not present; the Devil fled.

A testimony to the efficacy of prayer.<gai>


869. Thar nam bròg, thar nan osan.

<eng>It’s as well to go over the socks as over the shoes.

Cf. “As well be hanged for a sheep as a lamb.”<gai>


870. Théid an osna nas fhaide na’n eubh.

<eng>A sigh goes farther than a cry.

A sigh reaches a sympathetic heart; a cry goes no farther than the ear.<gai>


871. Théid nathair troimh theine dearg mu’n téid i troimh dhuilleach an uinnseinn.

<eng>An adder will go through red-hot fire sooner than through the leaves of the ash.
(Mull)<gai>


872. Thig ámannan air tighean nan tighearnan.

<eng>Bad times come upon the houses of lords.<gai>


873. Thig an cadal gun iarraidh, ged nach tig an t-òr.

<eng>Sleep will come unsought, though gold will not.
(Uist)<gai>


[TD 164]

874. Thig an t-sanais os cionn bùird.

<eng>A whisper will come above board.
(Uist)

i.e., a rumour will become widely known.<gai>


875. Thig bó mhaol odhar a-steach an t-Aite Mór agus leigidh i aon gheum aisd’ a chuireas na sia uinneagan dheth ’n Tigh Dhìge.

<eng>A dun, hornless cow will appear in the Minch and let out a bellow which will smash the six windows of Gairloch House.

Attributed to Coinneach Odhar, the Brahan Seer, and supposed to refer to a steam-boat. <gai>“An t-Aite Mór”<eng> (“The Big Place”) is the part of the Minch off Gairloch Point. <gai>“An Tigh Dìge”<eng> (“The Moat House” i.e. Gairloch House) was so called from the moat surrounding it.

[Cf. A. MacKenzie, The Prophecies of the Brahan Seer, pp 20-1.]<gai>


876. Thog iad ormsa droch alladh, is ortsa, Chalum nam beus!

<eng>People have spread a bad story about me and about you, virtuous Malcolm!

A way of defending a lover.

[Cf. J. C. Watson (ed.), Gaelic Songs of Mary MacLeod, p. 14, ll. 147-8.]<gai>


877. Thoir dòrn do phoca làn.

<eng>Punch a full sack.

i.e., attack what is capable of bearing your onset.<gai>


878. Thoir géill do ghis is géillidh tu do ghis.

<eng>Give in to superstitions, and you will continue to give in to superstitions.

[Cf. N 31, 6; 325, 4.]<gai>


[TD 165]

879. Thoir leat do bhreacan air an latha mhath; air an latha fhliuch, dèan mar a thogras tu.

<eng>Take your plaid with you on a dry day; on a wet day, do as you like.<gai>


880. Thoir leat mar chual thu.

<eng>Report back as you have heard.<gai>


881. Thug e a chuid ás a’ chruaidh.

<eng>He derived his sustenance from the stone anchor.

[i.e., he lived by fishing. See Glossary s.v. cruaidh.]<gai>


882. Thug thu’n Geamhradh leat!

<eng>You have brought Winter with you!
(Inverness district)

When loading corn on a farm, the driver of the last load was taken by his fellow servants and given some rough treatment. His face was blackened with a mixture of soot and oil, or some other material, and he was continually assailed with the above words.<gai>


883. Thuit a’ ghuit ’s a ghad air.

<eng>His fan and his strap fell off him.

i.e., he lost heart.

[C.’s translation is doubtful. Cf. Carm. Gad., vi, p. 78, s.v. <gai>gaid.]


884. Thuit Beinn Nibheis—’s gun d’aithnich mi sin air a turachail an raoir.

<eng>Ben Nevis has fallen—and I knew that would happen by its swaying last night.

A cynical remark made when a small accident occurs.<gai>


[TD 166]

885. Tigh-an-droma, am baile grànda,
Far nach d’fhuair duine riamh a shàth;
Fhuair mi feòil ann, ’s cha ghearradh sàbh i,
’S cha drùidheadh m’ fhiaclan air mìr de’n chàise.

<eng>Tyndrum is a nasty village, where no one ever got enough to eat; I got meat there, and a saw wouldn’t cut it, and my teeth couldn’t penetrate a bit of the cheese.<gai>


886. Tigh gun mheàirleach, tigh gun iomasglachadh.

<eng>A house without a thief is a house without equipment.

[i.e., a house without anything which can be stolen. See Glossary s.v. iomasglachadh.]<gai>


887. Tigh gun ùrnuigh, tigh gun tugha.

<eng>A house without prayer is like a house without thatch.
(Inverness district)<gai>


888. Tilg cnàmh do Mhoisean.

<eng>Throw a bone to the Devil.
(Uist)<gai>


889. Tirisdeach, le cead na cuideachd.

<eng>A Tiree man, with the company’s leave.
(Uist)

A jibe at the humility of Tiree people.<gai>


890. Tobar Thiobartain nam buadh.

<eng>The virtuous well of Tibberton.

Tibberton is the name of a farm in the extreme southwest of S. Uist, so called from its well, which women were not allowed to approach. It is said that a woman did, however, approach it to give a horse a drink, about sixty years before this saying was noted. As a result, the well stopped flowing, and only its hollow


[TD 167]

can now be seen. The well had many healing properties. If a bride took a drink of its water before she left the priest, she was assured of a family. A barren woman could be cured by drinking a cup of its water daily for nine months during the waxing of the moon. The well could cure other ailments, as the following verse records:

<gai>Tobar Thiobartain nam buadh
A chaisgeas gach failc agus fual,
An eilean iomartach a’ chuain,
Am fìor iomall an domhain mhóir.<eng>

The virtuous well of Tibberton, which can cure every issue and urinary disease, situated on the remote island in the ocean, on the very edge of the great world.

[Cf. Carm. Gad., ii, p. 273, s.v. falc. See Glossary s.v. failc and fual.]<gai>


891. Tochradh Nighean a’ Chathanaich.

<eng>The dowry of O’ Cahan’s Daughter.

[See TGSI, xlv, p. 32, where her dowry is given as:

<gai>Naoi cipeanan, naoi naoi teadhair ri gach cipean, agus bó air gach teadhair, agus tarbh agus buachaille air gach cipean.<eng>

Nine tether-pins, nine times nine tethers to every pin, a cow on every tether, and a bull and a herd-boy to every pin.

Agnes, daughter of Guy O’ Cahan of Ulster, married Angus Og of the Isles about 1300 (A. MacDonald and A. MacDonald, Clan Donald. iii. p. 180; W. Nicolaisen (ed.), Proceedings of the Third International Congress of Celtic Studies, p. 6l).]<gai>


892. Togaidh am fogharadh e fhéin.

<eng>The harvest will look after itself.


[TD 168]

This implies that harvest depends on factors beyond man’s control [and, presumably, that it will not fail]. It refers also to the cheery nature of harvest work.<gai>


893. Togaidh an gòraiche tigh; nì an gliocair còmhnuidh ann.

<eng>The fool builds a house; the wise man dwells in it.

It is more profitable to buy a house than to build one. [The saying probably means that a fool doesn’t stay in the house after he has built it. Cf. Dw. s.v. gliocaire. “caisteal” (i.e. castle) for “tigh” (HN).]<gai>


894. Togar leinn làmhan falamh ri nèamh, ’s cuiridh Dia obair orra.

<eng>We lift our empty hands to heaven and God lays work upon them.
(Lorn)<gai>


895. Toit, fuachd is bean nacaideach—taobh a-mach an doruis do’n duine.

<eng>Smoke, cold and a nagging wife—out goes the man.<gai>


896. Treabh an fhiadhair gu dil.

<eng>Plough the lea land to the gravel.

[See Glossary s.v. dil.]<gai>


897. Trì nithean brèagha: long fo sheòl, craobh fo bhlàth, is duine naomh air leabaidh-bàis.

<eng>Three beautiful things: a ship under sail, a tree in bloom, and a godly man on his death-bed.<gai>


898. Trì nithean urramach: urram na Trianaid, urram na cléire, is urram na h-aoise.

<eng>Three honourable things: reverence for the Trinity, reverence for the clergy, and reverence for old age.<gai>


[TD 169]

899. Trì oidhchean an tuathanaich: oidhche na cròthaidh, an oidhche théid an crann ’san òtraich, ’s an oidhche bhios am màl pàighte.

<eng>The farmer’s three nights: the night the stackyard is filled, the night the plough is put into the dunghill (for preservation) and the night the rent is paid.
(Perthshire)

He sleeps without a care on these nights.<gai>


900. Trì subhailcean a’ bháird:
Fios fithich gu ròic,
Cuireadh fial gu tàthadh rann,
Tart mór gu òl a dhram.

<eng>The bard’s three privileges are: a raven’s foreknowledge of a feast, a generous invitation to compose verses, and a mighty thirst for drinking his dram.

[Cf. N 185, 9; 372, 4; Carm. Gad., vi, p. 73, s.v. fios fithich.]<gai>


901. Triùir fhuathan an domhain:
Gaoth gu séideadh,
Muir gu beucadh,
Teine gu léirsgrios.

<eng>The three terrors of the world are: wind for blowing, sea for roaring, fire for total destruction.<gai>


902. Trod a’ chranna-mheasain ris a’ chù chrìon.

<eng>The mongrel-pup’s scolding of the little dog.
(Perthshire)

Used when two contemptible people quarrel.
The Argyllshire version has:

<gai>Trod an fharra-mheasain…<eng>
The mock-pup’s scolding…<gai>


903. Tuaileam is Tàileam

<eng>Tuaileam and Taileam.

[The Gaelic equivalent of “Tweedledum and Tweedledee”.]<gai>


[TD 170]

904. Tuarasdal an eich, a bhiadh.

<eng>The horse’s wages are its food.<gai>


905. Tuilleadh spionnaidh do d’uilinn! A dhuine suidh suas!

<eng>More strength to your elbow! Man, sit up!
(Perthshire)

A wish for a successful friend.<gai>


[TD 171]

U

906. Uair a’ ghille-chonnaidh air an latha, Là Fhéill Brìghde.

<eng>The wood-gatherer’s hour is added to the day on St Bridget’s Day.

Because of the lengthening day, an extra hour can be used for gathering firewood.

[Cf. no. 697.]<gai>


907. Ubh a’ Chrochadair.

<eng>The Devil’s egg.
(Argyll)

[Applied to anything that would bring bad luck or disturb a peaceful gathering. The “Devil’s egg” was the thirteenth egg which merchants claimed to make a dozen. See TGSI, xlv, p. 32.]<gai>


908. Ubh air tòir eireig.

<eng>An egg seeking a pullet.
(Mull)

An inversion of natural order.<gai>


909. Uibhean chearc feòil mhuc, glòir dhaone—a’ cheannachd as doire th’ann.

<eng>Hen’s eggs, pigs’ flesh, men’s praise—the dearest purchase there is.<gai>


910. Uibhist nam fear fial.

<eng>Uist of the generous people.<gai>


[TD 172]

911. Urnuigh na tugha.

<eng>The prayer of the thatch.

An insincere prayer. The phrase is current throughout the Highlands and was applied by the Free Church in 1843 to the prayers of the Church of Scotland, as well as by the remnant of the Free Church to the prayers of those who joined the Voluntaries in 1900.<gai>


912. Usaid roimh aiseid.

<eng>A fuss before childbirth.

A reference to the behaviour of young wives.<gai>


[TD 173]

<eng>APPENDIX A

The following sayings which occur in the collection are close variants of, or identical with, examples in Nicolson. The Nicolson (1951 ed.) reference numbers are given in the left hand column, and are followed by Campbell’s versions, where these differ from Nicolson. Relevant explanations and notes on sources, given by Campbell, are included.

6, 4 <gai>Aithnichear càirdean is eòlaich air banais ’s air tòrradh.<eng> (Uist)

8, 7(al.) (Attributed to the Skye bard, Mac-a-Leòir. See W. Matheson (ed.), The Songs of John MacCodrum, p. xxi and p. xxxiv.)

12, 5 <gai>Ge b’e bhios ’na thàmh, cuiridh e na cait ’san teine.<eng> (Uist)

12, 10 (Inverness district)

17, 8 <gai>Am fear a théid ’san dris dhomh, théid mi ’san droighinn dha-san.<eng> (Skye)

19, 4 <gai>Am fear g’am bi’n donas, ’s ann dha a bhuineas.

20, 3 Am fear nach cluinn air chòir, cha fhreagair air chòir.<eng> (Argyll)

21, 2(2) <gai>Am fear nach dèan Nollaig aoibhneach, nì e Càisg thùrsach (al. deurach).

28, 3 An dall air muin an airclich.<eng> (Uist)
]
33, 9 (“Do what is most pressing.”)

35. 3 <gai>Dèan nì ’sa chúil ’s thig e dh’ionnsaigh an teine.<eng> (Mull)

35, 6 <gai>An rud théid gu dàil, théid gu dearmad.

37, 4 An taoman cho mór ris a’ bhàta.<eng> (Mull)

41, 7 <gai>Ard ’s gun seòl an ceàrrdubhan, ’s ann ’sa ghlàr a thuiteas e.<eng> (Uist)

42, 9 <gai>Mo thruighe fear gun rud aige, nuair thàirngeas gach fear a chuid thuige.<eng>


[TD 174]

43, 4

44, 5 (First part only.)

45, 9 <gai>Ainneas na poite bige, cha téid e seach an luath.<eng>

48, 1 (Uist)

49, 2 <gai>B’e sin am màm air beul an t-saic.<eng> (Uist) (“Used of unnecessary attention.”)

56, 5 <gai>Tha caochladh cur air clò Chaluim.<eng>

58, 7 (Uist)

63, 5 <gai>Adhaircean móra air crodh a’ cheò.<eng>

65, 4 (al.) (Uist)

66, 1 <gai>Mìr a’ ghill’ èasgaidh air gach meis.<eng> (Perthshire)

66, 6 <gai>Sannt nan seachd sagart anns a’ bhean gun mhac gun nighinn.

67, 2 Beiridh caora dhubh uan geal.<eng>

72, 2(2) (Attributed to Raasay natives.)

76, 9

77, 3 <gai>Càldaichidh am biadh fiadh na beinne.

78, 9 Cearc a’ dol a dh’iarraidh geòidhe (cadhain<eng> scored out). (Uist)

81, 7 <gai>Chan e sin duan a tha air mo chuigeil.

82, 8

88, 8 Cha tig barrag air cuid ciat.<eng> (Uist)

91, 1 <gai>Cha chuir duin’ earchall ’na sporan.

92, 7 Cha dèan an t-òl ach am fear a tha murrach air.<eng> (Uist)

93, 5 <gai>Cha dèan corrag mhilis ìm, ’s cha dèan glutaire (al. glutag) càise.

94, 9 Is duilich fearas-tighe dhèanamh air na freithibh falamh.<eng> (Uist)

96, 12 <gai>Cha ghealaich uisg’ thu ’s cha dhubh grian thu.<eng> (“As bad as bad can be.”)

97, 3 (al.)

98, 1 <gai>Feur cha chinn air na mór-rathaidean.

101, 1 Cha do bhuail leis an truaill nach d’fhuair leis a’ chlaidheamh.

102, l Chan eil gréim ri ghabhail de dh’uisge no teine.

104, 8 Is beag is misd’ a’ ghealach na coin a bhith comhartaich rithe.


[TD 175]

108, 8 Chan i a’ mhuc as fheàrr a gheibh fear na faoighe.<eng>

114, 2(al.) <gai>Na h-uile nighean ’na deagh nighean, ach có ás a tha na droch mhnathan a’ tighinn?<eng> (Perthshire)

118, 4 (“Applied to make-believers.”)

122, 4(al.) <gai>Cha dèan thu itheadh mine ’s séideadh teine.<eng> (Perthshire)

124, 1 <gai>Bàs fir, gràs fir.<eng> (Uist)

126, 5 (First part only.) (Barra)

130, l <gai>Cha tig féich air beul dùinte.

145, 9 Chuireadh tu òrais air math-ghamhain.

150, 4 Slachdan an làimh onaid.<eng> (“Said of one who uses a tool clumsily.”)

153, 7 <gai>Có ris a nì mi mo ghearan ’s gun Mac ’Ic Ailein am Mùideart?

155, 2 Fuil gu fichead, comhdhaltas gu ceud.

160, 1 Cromadh gun ghainne ’sa chaol;
Aon eanga deug ’san osan;
Seachd eangan am beul a theach,
Air a chumadh gu dìreach,
Agus trì ’sa ghobhal;
Is tearc do nach fhoghainn.

170, 7 Dùthaich nan cluaran, nam fuaran, ’s nam fuar-bheann.<eng>

171, 8 (“Used as euphemism for dangers of childbirth”)

172, 2

174, 3 <gai>An rud théid fada bho’n t-sùil, théid fada bho’n chridhe.<eng> (Uist)

180, 12 <gai>Far nach ionmhuinn neach, ’s ann as fhas’ éigneachadh.<eng>

183, 10 (Omits last part. “Each of short duration.”)

184, 9 <gai>Fear an aona mhairt, biodh car d’a h-earball mu dhòrn.<eng> (Argyll)

188, 10 <gai>Is iomadh loth fhiata a ghabh sìol á boinneid.

190, 8

191, 2


[TD 176]

192, 7 An té bhios saor, cha dèan a’ ghaoth torrach i.<eng> (Uist)

197, 1 <gai>Math ’s gu bheil an gille cam, cha fhritheil e thall ’s a bhos.

198, 3 Faoighe do MhacGriogair, is leig leis fhéin a togail.

202, 5 Cha sgoilt an darach ach geinn dheth fhéin.

202, 6

202, 11 Gheibh an loman an lom dhonas.
Chan fhaigh an loman ach an lom dhonas.

204, 9 Am fear gun bhiadh gun tuarasdal, cha bhi e uair gun mhaighstir.

205, 7

205, 9 Is i an t-sùil a ghleidheas sealbh.

213, 5 Chan ann ri tràghadh a rugadh e.

221, 1 Is creach le cailleach a pocan.<eng>

223, 10 (Last part only. “Used of a person who apes a position he has not achieved.”)

228, 12 <gai>Is doirbh camag a thoirt ás an darach a dh’fhàs ’san fhàillein.

232, 8 Is e do chliù do cheud iomradh.

233, 10 Chan e mo roghainn a bha an uachdar.<eng>

243, 6 (First part only.)

243, 7 (al.)

245, 3

245, 7(al.) (Uist)

247, 5 <gai>Is fheàrr gréim caillich na tagar rìgh.

251, 3 Cha duilich bá a mhealladh, ’s gun an làmh a lomadh.

259, 1 Is minig a bha slabhruidh aig fear is maide crom aig a sheanair.<eng>

264, 3(al.) <gai>Sithe giomaich, sithe rionnaich, sithe ròin—trì sithean na mara móire (al. sithean a’ chuain).

267, 5 Is mairg a losgadh a chlàrsach rithe! <eng>(Similar story.)

269, 3

271, 1 <gai>Is math a’ chobhair an t-iasg, ach cha mhath an sabhal e.


[TD 177]

271, 9 Is math am modh a bhith sàmhach.<eng> (Uist)

280, 1 <gai>Is misde na buic a bhith lionmhor.<eng> (Barra)

280, 5 <gai>Tha a shùil nas mò na bhrù.

284, 2 Is olc a’ chearc a nì sgrìoban nach lìon a sgròban.

284, 3 Is fheàrr a’ mhàthair bhocanach na’n t-athair iodhlainneach.

292, 10 Tha’n cat fhéin trom le shìor ghiùlan.<eng> (Uist)

294, 10 <gai>Cleas na goibhre ag itheadh na nathrach, ag itheadh ’s a’ talach.

297, 4

301, 10 Luathair as fhaisge do mhoille.<eng> (Uist)

302, 1 (Similar story.)

305, 2 <gai>Ma their thu nas léir dhuit, their thu nas nàir dhuit.

305, 9

307, 7 An uair a sheallas bean air a glùin thoisgeil, gheibh i leisgeul.<eng> (Lochaber)

311, 5 <gai>Théid miannanaich o bheul gu beul mar théid eun o chraoibh gu craoibh.<eng> (Perthshire)

312, 2 <gai>Mar chat gu luch, tha bean mic gu màthair chéile.

312, 9 Bruichear bonnach mar a dh’iarras brù.

313, 10 Breugaidh am bith-iodh <eng>(sic)<gai> am fitheach o’n chreig.

315, 8 Is tric a mhill an cleas-thar-fhichead am fichead cleas.

317, 6 A’ mhisg gun lionn a’ mhisg as miosa th’ann.

318, 1 Na trì ràdhachan as grinne th’ann—“Mo bhean fhéin”, “Mo chuid fhéin”, agus “Théid sinn dhachaidh”.<eng>

326, 2

328, 2 (Similar story.)

329, 4 <gai>Chan aidich cù comain.

331, 5 Na sàsuich do mhiann gus an seall thu ’d sporan.

339, 6 Reodhadh an lodain lòin—cha robh e riamh buan (al. cha mhair e ach aon oidhche).<eng> (Uist)

339, 10 <gai>Riaghailtich am pailteas; riaghailtichidh an ganntar e fhéin.<eng>

340, 4 (Uist)


[TD 178]

341, 8 <gai>Thig dàil gu dorus.<eng>

345, 4 (First part only.) (Inverness district)

346, 6 <gai>Fuaim creabhaich is eubh caillich.<eng> (S. Uist)

353, 5 <gai>Tlàm Criontaig air cuigeil Gòraig.<eng>

362, 5 (Last part only.)

363, 8

364, 10 <gai>Barail an duine ghlic as tinne théid air an fhìrinn.

370, 4 “Seòlaidh mi ’n diugh”, ars’ an rìgh. “Fuirich gus am faod”, ars’ a’ ghaoth.

381, 3

384, 5 Cha seas càirdeas air aon chois.

386, 1. Fear farumach, ’s e cothromach, ’s a mhàthair marbh; figheadair no fear-eiginn, olc air mhath air choireiginn.<eng>


[TD 179]

APPENDIX B

The following sayings which are found in the Campbell Collection also occur in a collection published by the Rev. Kenneth MacLeod in The Oban Times between November 1899 and March 1900 (see p. xx). The numbering is that of the Campbell Collection. Sayings in Group (1) occur in virtually identical forms, with similar notes, in both collections; Group (2) comprises sayings which occur in variant forms or with different notes in MacLeod’s collection, and the points of divergence are indicated.

(1)
11 (al. version), 27, 48, 54, 55, 60, 69, 76, 79, 94, 106, 113, 136, 148, 161, 165, 174, 190, 207, 210, 217, 218, 230 (al. version), 231, 235, 236, 238, 240, 242, 246, 259, 277, 283, 300, 317, 319 (al. version), 323, 349, 350, 353, 355, 356, 370, 408, 409, 420, 457, 458, 470, 478, 496, 501. 540, 541, 546, 553, 555, 559, 582, 585, 589, 592, 609, 614, 626, 636, 640, 642, 644, 647, 648, 672, 698, 731, 758, 781, 795 (al. version), 810, 811, 821, 831, 834, 844, 846 (Uist al.), 858, 870, 873, 897.

(2)

<gai>6 an ath fhear

26 ri sgeith

42 a thigeadh a bhuain mòine

51 <eng>(MacLeod gives C.’s additional phrase as part of the saying, but he does not give saying no. 686, which C. notes at this point.)<gai>

53 ceithir-là-deug

62 ’s an duine

64 An cunnart a chaidh seachad, is cùis fharmaid e.

67 tàirneanaich a’ gheamhraidh... thig aona chuid

75 Ni nach binn...

78 is dual dha


[TD 180]

96 <eng>(MacLeod gives the saying in the note as <gai>“Thug na fir-chlis air càch-a-chéile an raoir”.)

111 Mhuisein

112 <eng>(MacLeod gives the same explanation as Dw., s.v. <gai>aoigheachd.)

120 <eng>(Village identified as Paible, N. Uist.)<gai>

129 air aona mhac

137 air a’ bhliadhna

140 <eng>(MacLeod does not note the source.)

151 (MacLeod does not give the first explanation.)

160 (MacLeod does not name the schoolmaster.)<gai>

173 agamsa

176. <eng>(MacLeod does not give an explanation.)

194 (Attributed to a Skye Innocent.)<gai>

204 gach ràidhe... seall mus fhàg <eng>(MacLeod has no reference to the Lochfyne fishermen in his note.)<gai>

225 Cha chual e

227 Cha chuir cìs no ceannach dragh <eng>(MacLeod does not ascribe the saying to MacCodrum.)<gai>

234 Cha d’fhàs iasgair riamh reamhar air griobaidhean agus air sgrobaidhean.

241 nach dean fear <eng>(MacLeod gives a different explanation.)<gai>

248 an fhìor ghlog

251 Cha ghlan an cuan-mór fhéin

253 tigh ’sam bith

265 tigh-putan <eng>(No alternatives are given by MacLeod.)<gai>

276 Cha chòir dòrn a thoirt an aghaidh pòig.

280 as an airgiod

286 <eng>(Application not noted.)<gai>

289 ach cuir o’n Deas

291. <eng>(Gaelic forms are not given in note.)<gai>

311. Cha’n’ eil neach sam bith gun “mur a bhiodh” a bhi ann.

328 ris an

330 bainne Mhic-Codruim <eng>(Note has <gai>“Tubaist ort, a chreutair chearbaich”, <eng>as in Dw., s.v. <gai>cearbach<eng>. MacLeod like C., does not include the last part of Dw.’s note.)


[TD 181]

346 (MacLeod comments “Not a very charitable sentiment”, and does not explain <gai>Croisean-Moire<eng> as gossamer.)<gai>

353 na Leòdaich air na cait

357 gàir

367 Gu d’ eile

370 garbh

373 Cleas luchd-togail na gainnimh: a’ faicinn càch-a-chéile dhachaidh gu latha. <eng>(MacLeod explains this as “Something like a ‘Scotch Convoy’,” but does not include the legend in C.)

415 (MacLeod has no reference to “potagan” in his note.)

430 (MacLeod adds a note.)

441 (MacLeod has a different note beginning “This remarkably terse proverb is suggestive of a thousand tragedies at sea.”)<gai>

443 An t-eòlas a rinn Calum-Cille

453 ged bhiodh

455 air cnoc glé àrd <eng>(MacLeod notes that this is “Said of a very respectable person.”)<gai>

460 théid e rìs ann

461 far an cruinnichear an teine

465. Fear gun rud aige, is diùid a chéilidh anmoch.

499 Gu’m bith c’àit am bi thu... a’s t’oidhche.

500 Ge binn leinn

502 Ge math soills’ an latha, is i ’n oidhche is caoimhneile, mar thuirt na ceathairnich. <eng>(MacLeod does not have a note.)<gai>

503 ged bhiodh an darna ceann dheth dona... gu math <eng>(MacLeod does not have a note.)<gai>

505 Ged bheirear tràigh dhinn

511 Ged rachadh a’ ghrian tuathal, cha taoghail an dé air an diugh.

517 ach chan fhaigh neach

534 Ha! Ha! thug mi ’n car asad an tràth so co-dhiù, mar thuirt an t-amadan ris an fhrois uisge. <eng>(MacLeod gives a similar note.)<gai>

547 mo shùilean... a dh’ fhosgail iad

554 ’s a’ mheadhon-oidhche <eng>(MacLeod does not give a list of names for the cockerel.)<gai>


[TD 182]

558 ri adaig dheth

561 Is còir ’s an Fhaoilleach na trì claisean taobh-ri-taobh a bhi làn uisge ’s làn sneachda ’s làn tubha nan tighean.

564 Is companach do neach a nàdur.

569 na màthar (<eng>MacLeod give a long note, including the text of a lullaby,<gai> “M’ulaidh is mo ghràdh...”)

579 Is e barrachd de’n aodach a nì na longanna caola ’bhàthadh.

596 blas an teine <eng>(MacLeod notes “Said when food is served very hot.”)<gai>

601 suathadh ri crios

603 Is fuar tigh

607 am bigean a bha ’n roth na muilne

610 nach do chuir sad... mar thuirt am famhair ris an troich. (<eng>MacLeod notes that the dwarf had just said to the giant, <gai>“Nach buidhe dhuit-sa bhi cho mór.”)

623 a’ bheathaich laig

629 mar thuirt an fheannag ris na calamain.

635 na soluis fad air falbh

654 am farradh ’na ghnàithseach <eng>(Dw., s.v. <gai>farradh<eng>, follows MacLeod’s note.)<gai>

663 Is fhad... an cat... <eng>(MacLeod notes this saying twice, first in Part x, and then in Part xiii; in the second version, the pronoun is “e”.)<gai>

669 Is toigh leinn

676 na seirbhisich

677 Là nan trì sealladh (<eng>MacLeod notes that “St Patrick’s Day is also called <gai>‘Là nan seachd oibrichean fichead’”.)

699 <eng>(MacLeod notes that “there is a tradition that Maolan, Eanraig and Neachdain were brothers”.)<gai>

727 Mionnan nach còir a dheanamh

733 Leòm nam Baoghlach

748 a thachair riamh rium: mo dhachaidh ’s mo sporan ’s mo mhàthair.

791 <eng>(MacLeod notes “A case of six and half a dozen”) and does not refer to the legend.)<gai>


[TD 183]

828 a ghiùlan

832 <eng>(MacLeod gives different note.)

844 (MacLeod adds a note.)<gai>

868 Muisean

879 ’An latha math thoir do chòta leat, ’s an droch latha dean mar thogras tu.

898 <eng>(MacLeod’s note includes material not in C’s. See p. xxii)

911 <eng>(MacLeod’s note includes material not in C’s. See p. xxii)


[TD 184]

GLOSSARY

Unless otherwise stated, Old Irish (Old Ir.) and Middle Irish (Mid. Ir.) forms are taken from A Dictionary of the Irish Language and Contributions to that dictionary; Modern Irish (Mod. Ir.) forms are taken from Dinneen, An Irish-English Dictionary; and Scots forms are taken from The Scottish National Dictionary.

<gai>aindeal<eng>? warmth 193. Not attested elsewhere. [? variant of <gai>aingeal,<eng> light, fire (Dw.).]

<gai>anacladh<eng> m. protective attention, often mollycoddling 578. [vb.n. of <gai>anacail,<eng> Mid. Ir. <gai>anacal<eng> vb.n. of <gai>aingid,<eng> save, protect.]

<gai>anduine<eng> m. wicked or insignificant person 720. [neg. prefix an- + duine.]

<gai>aoireannach-cruinn<eng> m. ploughman (C.) 89. [cf. <gai>aoirean,<eng> ploughman (Tiree).]

<gai>àraicean<eng> ? coffers 44. Not attested elsewhere. [? pl. of <gai>àirc,<eng> ark, large chest]

<gai>asgall<eng> m. loss, onset, attack 621. [Mid. Ir. <gai>esgal,<eng> noise, roar of water, storm, commotion]


<gai>ban-altruim-cuim<eng> f. ? wet nurse 89. [C. translates “pregnant woman”; lit. a nurse of the chest/body.]

<gai>bara<eng> mind, thoughts, intention 648.

<gai>beadaidh<eng> adj. forward (in nature), early (C.) 72. [Mid. Ir. <gai>betaide,<eng> impudent, fastidious, saucy.]

<gai>bleagh<eng> vb. milk, draw milk 545. [mod. <gai>bleoghainn.<eng>]

<gai>blianach<eng> f. lean meat 555, 730.

<gai>boininn<eng> f. a calf 680. [cf. Mod. Ir. <gai>boininn,<eng> a Kerry cow, calf; dimin. of <gai>bó.<eng>]

<gai>boinnealaich<eng> f. rain drops prior to a shower 469. [<gai>boinne,<eng> a drop.]


[TD 185]

<gai>brachadair<eng> m. maltman, distiller (probably illicit) 397. [<gai>brachadh,<eng> malting, fermenting]

<gai>Brianag<eng> the feminine of <gai>Brian,<eng> an early Celtic god 755. [cf. Carm. Gad., vi, p. 20, s.v.]

<gai>Brìogag<eng> f. generic name for an untruthful woman 115. [<gai>breug,<eng> a lie.]

<gai>Brionnag<eng> f. generic name for an untruthful woman 115. [<gai>brionn,<eng> lying, flattering.]

<gai>broilean<eng> m. second stomach of a ruminant animal, king’s-hood (C.) 186. But cf. Dw. who defines it as the manyplies, i.e. third stomach of a ruminant.

<gai>buad<eng> lantern 502. [Scots bowat, bouet.]

<gai>buidealaich<eng> f. downpour of rain 469. [? <gai>buideal,<eng> cask, anker.]


<gai>Caclach<eng> generic name for a dirty person, “one who thrives by thieving and the black art” (C.) 103. [lit. trash, filth.]

<gai>caibheannach<eng> m. a small trout 355. [cf. Carm. Gad., vi, p. 26, s.v. <gai>cabhan, cabhannach.<eng>]

<gai>cailean<eng> m. seedling, husk 785. [dimin. of <gai>cail,<eng> particle.]

<gai>cainneachan<eng> m. cotton grass, bog-cotton 104. [dimin. of <gai>cainneach<eng>, otherwise <gai>canach.<eng>]

<gai>calp<eng> m. ? substance 193.

<gai>ceallach<eng> m. kiln flue, part of kiln containing the fire 197. [cf. <gai>teallach,<eng> hearth.]

<gai>ceapaire<eng> m. sandwich, bread covered with butter and cheese 198. [? <gai>ceap,<eng> a block]

<gai>cearbadach<eng> adj. unreliable 565. [variant of <gai>cearbach.<eng>]

<gai>ceusda-chrann<eng> ? the agony of the Cross 208. [<gai>ceusda<eng> gen. of <gai>ceusadh<eng> vb.n. of <gai>ceus,<eng> crucify + <gai>crann,<eng> tree, cross; lit. a tree of crucifixion.]

<gai>ciar<eng> m. dusk. darkness 728. [C. derives from <gai>cèabhar,<eng> sky, upper clouds, but this is unlikely; cf. Dw. s.v.]

<gai>Cìogan<eng> m. (often <gai>Gìogan,<eng> in the phrase <gai>Gìogan<eng> is <gai>Guaigean<eng>) generic name for a difficult or awkward person 867. [? gìogan. Thistle.] See <gai>cuaigean.<eng>

<gai>cionannan-crò<eng> m. the “leader” of a school of whales (Dw. ? from C.) 794.

<gai>Ciotach<eng> adj. left-handed, sinister, used as generic name for a shady person 694.


[TD 186]

<gai>Ciotag<eng> f. left hand, used as generic name for a shady person 290; rag, 450.

<gai>Clach-shùileach<eng> adj. having staring eyes, used as generic name for a gaper 863. [<gai>clach,<eng> stone, pupil of eye + <gai>sùil,<eng> eye.]

<gai>clag-sìth<eng> m. fairy bell, “the name given to the rustling sound of heather tips in frosty weather” (C.) 329.

<gai>cnagan<eng> m. crevice (C.) 108. [? dimin. of <gai>cnac,<eng> crack, fissure, crevice]

<gai>coilchionn<eng> m. dwarf corn 281.

<gai>corrònta<eng> f. black-tailed crane 374. [contracted form of <gai>còrr thònduibh<eng> (Fr. Allan, p. 82).]

<gai>cranna-mheasan<eng> m. a shrivelled little dog, mongrel pup 902. [<gai>crannadh,<eng> decaying, withering + <gai>measan,<eng> lap-dog.]

<gai>creanaiche<eng> m. loser, sufferer 381. [variant of <gai>creineach.<eng>]

<gai>Crochadair<eng> m. Devil 396, 413, 726, 907. [lit. hangman.]

<gai>Croisean-Moire<eng> the Virgin’s crosses 346, 763. C. explains that the reference is to gossamer, and cites an English legend (so far untraced) “that gossamer is the ravellings of the Virgin Mary’s winding sheet, which fell away on her ascension into heaven.” This seems improbable. The Rev. A. MacDonald, Killearnan, who also noted saying 346, states that it is evidently of Protestant origin “meaning that devotion to a cross is trifling and mere child’s play.”

<gai>Crotag<eng> f. generic name for a crooked little woman 694. [<gai>croit,<eng> hump.]

<gai>cròthadh<eng> vb.n. ingathering of corn 899. [<gai>crò,<eng> pen, fold, enclosure.]

<gai>cruaidh<eng> f. stone used as anchor for a boat 881. [a Noa term; see SGS, xi (pt. i) (1966). p. 89.]

<gai>cuaigean<eng> m. lame person 191; used as a generic name 867.

<gai>cuilbh<eng> f. lockfast place, store 214, 630. [variant of <gai>cuile<eng>]

<gai>cuinnlean<eng> m. stalk of grain, esp. barley, hence supply of grain 632. Used elsewhere of stubble. [Mid. Ir. <gai>coinnlíne.<eng>]

<gai>cuspach<eng> f. a chilblain. usually on the heel 87.

<gai>cuthag-chluaise<eng> f. a tell-tale (C.) 500. [lit. ear-cuckoo. i.e. a cuckoo always at one’s ear. C. notes that <gai>cuthag<eng> is used of a slanderous woman in Argyll.]


[TD 187]

<gai>deaghad<eng> betterment, improvement (C.) 307. [<gai>deagh,<eng> good; but cf. <gai>deaghad,<eng> living, diet, morals (MacB./Dw.).]

<gai>deàrrsach<eng> f. heavy rain, downpour 91.

<gai>deilbh<eng> vb.n. warping (in weaving) 419. [variant of <gai>dealbh.]

deirist<eng> vb. impv. stand still, stop, used of cow that kicks 775. [Old Ir. to-air-siss, stand fast (R. Thurneysen, A Grammar of Old Irish, p. 427).]

<gai>digh<eng> drink liquid 68. [Mid. Ir. <gai>digh<eng>, dat. sg. of <gai>deog, deoch, <eng> drink.]

<gai>dil<eng> lower depth, bottom, gravel (C.) 896. [cf. Carm. Gad., vi, p. 60 s.v.]

<gai>diùbhras<eng> m. contemptible thing (C.) 489. [? cf. Mid. Ir. <gai>diúire,<eng> pettiness, meanness (of appearance); or is this a variant of <gai>dìomhras<eng>, secret talk?]

<gai>doitheamh<eng> adj. disagreeable, wild, cross 114.

<gai>dòmanachd<eng> f. surreptitious thieving from stackyards (C.) 425. Elsewhere surreptitious gleaning. [cf. Mid. Ir. <gai>domaín,<eng> loss, damage, harm; Carm. Gad., vi, p. 62, s.v. dòman.]

<gai>donnag<eng> f. pet (C.) 755. [<gai>donn,<eng> brown, sometimes used affectionately.]

<gai>dubh-ogha<eng> m. great-great-great-grandson 14.


<gai>ealachadh<eng> m. grain which has been parched and pounded prior to grinding 715. [variant of <gai>eararadh,<eng> with dissimilation.]

<gai>earchall<eng> m. misfortune, loss (often by death of cattle) 588. [intensive prefix <gai>ar + call.]

earradhubh<eng> m. the waning moon 264. [? <gai>earr, earradh,<eng> end, tail + <gai>dubh.<eng>]

<gai>easach<eng> m. thin porridge 184.

<gai>eatorras<eng> m. mediocrity, middling state 854. [Mid Ir. etar (mod. <gai>eadar<eng>) + abstract noun ending.]

<gai>eirbhe<eng> f. poverty (C.) 92. Not attested elsewhere. [cf. <gai>eirbhear, eirthear,<eng> hard life of it; fatiguing, dangerous and trying existence (Fr. Allan, p. 113).]


<gai>failc<eng> f. flood, issue 890. [cf. Mid. Ir. <gai>folcud,<eng> washing, lotion, wash.]

<gai>fuiteachan<eng> m. timid person 216. [<gai>faiteach,<eng> fearful, timorous.]


[TD 188]

<gai>faodail<eng> f. goods found by chance, stray treasure 813. [? variant of <gai>(f)eudail,<eng> cattle, treasure.]

<gai>farbhradh<eng> m. unploughed outbits of a field, land set apart for the ploughman (C.) 654. Also selvidge of cloth (C.). Not attested elsewhere in this form. [variant of <gai>fairtheadh,<eng> wages paid in kind to a servant (Carm. Gad., vi, p. 69 s.v.); cf. <gai>farradh,<eng> crop raised by a married farm-servant for his own use (Dw.).]

<gai>fàrsannach<eng> adj. given to straying or wandering 766. [cf. <gai>fàrsan,<eng> ? wandering (Carm. Gad., vi. p. 71, s.v. <gai>fàrsair).]

feamanadh<eng> driving of seaweed from shore, act of manuring 255, 633. [<gai>feamainn,<eng> seaweed.]

<gai>feann<eng> adj. weak 710. [variant of <gai>fann.]

fear-fàirde<eng> m. sluggish or lazy man 451. [<gai>fear<eng> + ? variant of <gai>fàrdal,<eng> delay, hindrance, detention; Mid. Ir. <gai>fordál,<eng> additional business (?), delaying, prolonging.]

<gai>fear-seannsaidh<eng> m. one who chants, announcer 554. [Eng. chant.]

<gai>fiadhair<eng> f. lea land, fallow land 896. [Mid. Ir. <gai>fiad,<eng> uncultivated land, waste spot.]

<gai>fiathachadh<eng> act of inviting, offering hospitality 39; invitation 470. [vb.n. of <gai>fiathaich;<eng> Mid. Ir. <gai>fiadaigid<eng>, receives with respect, welcomes.]

<gai>fochlas<eng> m. prize, gift, reward for valour 473. [cf. Mid. Ir. <gai>fochell,<eng> hire, wage, reward.]

<gai>fual<eng> m. water, urine; hence urinary disease, “gravel” (C.) 890. [Mid. Ir. fual, urine, water.]

<gai>fùsbaireachd<eng> f. deep ploughing or trenching, hence haphazard digging 670.


<gai>gabhannach<eng> adj. flattering, gossiping, back-biting 521.

<gai>gathan dubha<eng> storm riders, the dark undulations seen in falling rain 351. [lit. black shafts.]

<gai>geaslanachd<eng> f. superstition, superstitious divination 504. [<gai>geas,<eng> charm, enchantment.]

<gai>giorran guanach<eng> ? lit. unsteady garron 20. [? giorran, variant of <gai>gearran,<eng> garron, horse.]

<gai>giubhannach<eng> adj. slanderous (C.) 521. Not attested elsewhere.


[TD 189]

<gai>glag<eng> m. noise of anything falling, babble, loud talk; hence one who makes such a noise, babbler, fool 248.

<gai>Glagag<eng> f. generic name for a silly female 763.

<gai>gnàithseach<eng> variant of <gai>gràinnseach,<eng> arable land under crop, grain field 654; ? husbandry 634; meaning extended to person who works the land 154, 207. Extension of meaning not attested elsewhere. Also part of cloth fit for use (C.). [Eng. grange; cf. Carm. Gad., vi, p. 69, s.v. <gai>fairtheadh.]

gradan<eng> m. parched grain 715. [<gai>gread,<eng> burn, scorch; cf. Carm. Gad., vi. p. 86, s.v. gradan.] See <gai>maide-gradanaidh.

guag<eng> variant of <gai>guga,<eng> young solan goose 71.

<gai>guaid<eng> vb. impv. leave alone, desist from 484. [Eng. quit.]

<gai>guirean<eng> m. spot, pimple 528. [Mid. Ir. <gai>gor,<eng> inflammation, pus, matter + dimin. suffix.]

<gai>guit<eng> f. ? corn fan. winnowing fan (C.) 883. [C.’s interpretation is doubtful in view of other forms, e.g. <gai>dud (mo dhud),<eng> in variants; cf. Carm. Gad., vi, p. 78, s.v. <gai>gaid.<eng>]


<gai>iarm<eng> sky, firmament 728. [? contraction of <gai>iarmailt.]

innlinn<eng> f. forage, provender, fodder (Dw.) 193.

<gai>iodh<eng> corn, food, in sense of solid food 68. [Mid. Ir. <gai>ith,<eng> corn, grain.]

<gai>iomaideal<eng> f. piece of sheep-skin used to cover the mouth of a milk-pail 344. [cf. Carm. Gad., vi. p. 91, s.v. <gai>imdeal.]

iomartach<eng> adj. remote (C.) 890. [cf. Carm. Gad., ii, p. 273; ? variant of <gai>iomairteach,<eng> bustling, restless; confused with <gai>iomallach,<eng> remote.]

<gai>iomasglachadh<eng> m. equipment 886. [variant of <gai>iom-fhuasgladh,<eng> which can mean minor equipment, small conveniences, such as those of the work basket (Dw.).]

<gai>ion-ogha<eng> m. great-great-grandson 14.


<gai>leac-bonnaich<eng> m. stone for toasting bannocks 807; <gai>Leaca-bonnaich<eng> ? generic name for a lazy person 867.

<gai>leathar-bhonn<eng> m. shoe leather 343. [lit. sole-leather.]

<gai>leibidean<eng> m. trifling mishap 666. [diminutive of <gai>leibid,<eng> trifling accident.]

<gai>léiris<eng> f. foolish woman, slut 526.


[TD 190]

<gai>lite-gharbhain<eng> f. porridge made of coarse-ground meal (<gai>garbhan) 685.

loguid<eng> ghost (C.) 401. [cf. Carm. Gad., vi, p. 100. s.v. <gai>logaid.]

lonach<eng> adj. greedy, talkative, forward 178, 196.

<gai>lub<eng> f. dub, marsh, pond (usually dirty) 233, 819; dimin. <gai>luban<eng> used as generic name 265.

<gai>lughadh<eng> m. ? swearing, solemn oath 652. [? Old Ir. <gai>luige, lugad,<eng> vb.n. of <gai>tongaid,<eng> swears (R. Thurneysen, A Grammar of Old Irish, p. 446).]

<gai>luibh Chaluim-Chille<eng> f. St John’s wort 691. [lit. Columba’s plant.]

<gai>lus Charoline<eng> f. corn-cockle (C.) 692. Not attested elsewhere. [lit. Caroline’s herb.]


<gai>mac Rìgh Breatuinn<eng> (often <gai>lus mac Righ Breatuinn<eng>) wild thyme 701. [lit, the King of Britain’s son.]

<gai>Mac Sìridh<eng> m. Witch-son (C.) 483. Elsewhere used as surname, MacKinnon (Mull), MacLean (Skye). [Carm. Gad., vi, p. 103, s.v. derives from Early Ir. <gai>Síchraidh,<eng> Old Norse Sigrodr; but cf. Mid. Ir. <gai>sirite,<eng> supernatural being that changed shape; imp, whipper-snapper.]

<gai>màg-bhleoighne<eng> f. milking hand (C.) 531. Not attested elsewhere. [<gai>màg,<eng> paw, soft, plump hand + <gai>bleoghainn.]

maide-gradanaidh<eng> m. stick used when parching grain 335. (The ears of a sheaf were set on fire, and the grain struck off using this stick.) See <gai>gradan.

màm<eng> m. as much as can be taken up between the two palms of the hands 715.

<gai>manbh<eng> f. fold or fank where cows are tended (C.) 704. Not attested elsewhere.

<gai>maodal<eng> f. stomach, maw 186, 334.

<gai>maoim<eng> f. terror, alarm 401. (In this instance, na (taken to be pl. article) may originally be gen. sg. f. of article after vb.n.) [Mid. Ir. <gai>maidm,<eng> breaking (a battle), defeat, rout, flight.]

<gai>Maol-an-uachdair<eng> m. person devoted to cream, cream-bibber (C.) 798. Not attested elsewhere. [<gai>maol,<eng> tonsured person, hence a devotee + <gai>uachdar,<eng> cream.]


[TD 191]

<gai>mart-làmhaig<eng> m. cow being fattened for killing 352, 771. [<gai>mart,<eng> cow, steer + <gai>làmhag,<eng> axe.]

<gai>meachainn<eng> m. abatement, deduction, lenity (Dw.) 442.

<gai>meala-bhainne<eng> m. sweet milk 685. [? <gai>meala<eng> gen. sg. of <gai>mil,<eng> honey + <gai>bainne;<eng> cf. Carm. Gad., vi, p. 79, s.v. <gai>garbhan<eng>.]

<gai>meilteag<eng> f. bundle of straw, drawn and combed for thatch (C.) 548. Not attested elsewhere. [cf. <gai>meiltreag,<eng> handful of coarse sea-weed for scraping fouling off a boat (Tiree).]

<gai>mòd<eng> m. annual donation in kind supplementing money rent (C.) 673. [<gai>mòd<eng>, court, trial; meaning extended to tribute paid by tenants on such occasions; cf. <gai>gun ghearsom, gun mhàl, gun mhòd<eng> (D. MacLean (ed.), The Songs of Dugald Buchanan, p. 46).]

<gai>mòthan<eng> m. bog violet 418. This plant was thought to have strong protective powers.

<gai>mudha<eng> in idiom <gai>rach am mudha<eng> become useless, decline 509, 720. [Old Ir. i n- + madae, vain, ineffectual, fruitless.]

<gai>mùirnean<eng> m. strap or rope for carrying a burden, burden so carried (C.) 52. Not attested elsewhere. [Cf. <gai>mùirnich,<eng> to burden, load; Mod. Ir. <gai>muirneach,<eng> heavy, burdensome.]


<gai>nacaideach<eng> adj. nagging (C.) 895. Not attested elsewhere. [? Eng. nag.]

<gai>nèarach<eng> (otherwise <gai>niarach[d]<eng>) adj. happy, prosperous, lucky 656. 691.


<gai>óbh-obagaich<eng> f. fuss (C.) 744. Not attested elsewhere. [<gai>óbh-óbh,<eng> expression of wonder, amazement.]

<gai>omhan<eng> m. froth, particularly of milk or whey 598. [Mid. Ir. <gai>úan,<eng> froth, foam; cf. Carm. Gad., vi, p. 113, s.v.]

<gai>òrdugh-pòsaidh<eng> right to marry (C.) 55. [lit. ordinance of marriage. C. notes that <gai>òrdugh baisdidh is pòsaidh<eng> is the Uist equivalent of “ordination”.]


<gai>peileagach<eng> adj. given to chattering (Dw. ? from C.) 521.

<gai>pileagach<eng> adj. smart-tongued (Dw. ? from C.) 521.

<gai>pinntich<eng> vb. dialectal variant of <gai>binndich<eng> curdle 703.

<gai>plàd<eng> (otherwise <gai>plàda<eng>) bag made of straw or sea bent 38.


[TD 192]

<gai>potag<eng> f. dough lump (C.) 415. [Cf. Carm. Gad., vi, p. 116, s.v.]

<gai>pruidh<eng> call to cattle, “come” 775. [C. derives from Fr. approchez but this seems unlikely.]


<gai>Roagag<eng>f. generic name for a woman who is always out of season with her work (C.) 91. [variant, probably diminutive, of <gai>Raonaid.<eng>]

<gai>raoith<eng> tether pin 446. [cf. Carm. Gad., vi, p. 120, s.v. <gai>roith.<eng>]

<gai>ràthan<eng> sureties, securities 447. [Mid. Ir. <gai>ráth,<eng> surety, suretyship.]

<gai>riabhag<eng> f. generic name for a cuckoo’s attendant bird (C.) 10. Usually lark, hedgesparrow.

<gai>ròibean<eng> m. moustache, whisker 239. [diminutive of <gai>ròib,<eng> filth round mouth, overgrown beard.]

<gai>ròmhanaich<eng> ? mugginess (C.) 786. [? lit. groaning, roaring (of sea on the shore) more noticeable in still autumn weather; cf. Carm. Gad., vi, p. 120, s.v.]

<gai>ruth<eng> ? fortune, prosperity (C.) 526. Also desire, genesis (Dw. and Carm. Gad., ii, p. 321, s.v.)


<gai>sanais<eng> f. variant of <gai>sanas<eng> m. whisper 874.

<gai>seotaire<eng> m. lazy fellow, lounger 795.

<gai>seun<eng> m. blessing (C.) 799. [Mid. Ir. <gai>sén<eng> (L. signum), sign, charm, favourable sign, blessing.]

<gai>sgiolc<eng> vb. slip in or out suddenly 803. Also squeeze out of husk of rind (Fr. Allan, p. 214 [? cf. Eng. skulk (MacB.); Mid. Ir. <gai>sceilled,<eng> shelling.]

<gai>sgliùbrach<eng> f. young seagull 532. [variant of <gai>sgliùrach,<eng> slut, young seagull.]

<gai>sgòdagag<eng> f. vain girl (C.) 804. [diminutive of <gai>sgòdag,<eng> slovenly woman, vain girl.]

<gai>sìolman,<eng> m. refuse of corn 302.

<gai>slad<eng> m. theft, robbery, booty 760. [Mid. Ir. <gai>slaide<gai>, striking, plundering].

<gai>smùirnean<eng> m. paricle (of dust), mote 32.

<gai>sneadh<eng> f. nit 439. [Mid. Ir. sned.]

<gai>srathair-mheurach.<eng> f. fingered pack-saddle (C.) 361. C. explaines further: “This kind of pack-saddle was formerly in use


[TD 193]

in the Highlands. It had a wooden padded frame with pegs slanted so as to hold a loop of rope. The burden was held up by ropes looped on to the pegs, and it needed some skill to place in position 24 pegs.”

<gai>sreathainn<eng> f. straw on which corn is laid in a kiln 358. [Mid. Ir. sreth (vb.n. of <gai>sern[a]id<eng>), act of strewing, spreading out.]

<gai>Staonag<eng> f. generic name for silly woman 290. [<gai>staoin,<eng> oblique, shallow, silly.]

<gai>Struileag<eng>f. imaginary boat used in a contest of wit or singing at a marriage or other gathering (DW. ? from C.) 403. C. notes that the word was used on the sea-board of North Argyll for a small rowing boat. [cf. <gai>Struilleag,<eng> the name of <gai>an Cùbair Collach<eng>’s boat (TGSI, xli. p. 58): Carm. Gad., vi, p. 133, s.v. <gai>struilleag.<eng>]


<gai>tàbh<eng> m. hand net for fishing 38; clothes resembling a net, rags (C.) 450.

<gai>tacar<eng> m. provision, plenty 637.

<gai>tairgneachd<eng> f. ? providence plan (C.) 145. Usually prophecy. [cf. Mid. Ir. <gai>tairngire,<eng> promise, prophecy.]

<gai>taomboileach<eng> adj. unpredictable, uncertain 667. [? <gai>taom,<eng> torrent + <gai>boile,<eng> madness, fury.]

<gai>teic<eng> adj. due, lawful, legal (Dw. from C.) 272. [variant of <gai>deic:<eng> cf. Mid. Ir. <gai>téchtae,<eng> legal, due, as prescribed by law, tradition, etc.]

<gai>tèimh<eng> dialectal variant of <gai>sèimh<eng> adj. quiet, gentle 765.

<gai>teisd<eng> ? witness 71; ? report 719. In first instance, C. translates as “charm”, but this seems unlikely. [? variant of <gai>teasd<eng>, witness, report.]

<gai>tiùmban<eng> m. posterior, bottom 15, 450. [variant of <gai>tioman, tiomban<eng> (Fr. Allan, p. 242).]

<gai>toill<eng> vb. contain 553, 619. [Mid. Ir. <gai>toill<eng> dependent form of do-lína, increase, add to, is contained in.]

<gai>tràthadair<eng> m. time-keeper, signaller (C.) 382. [<gai>tràth,<eng> time, season.]

<gai>trioplag<eng> f. fairy spell 411. [cf. Carm. Gad., vi, p. 142. s.v. <gai>tripleag.<eng>]


[TD 194

<gai>triùbhair<eng> m. rascal, rogue 303 [variant of <gai>triùcair;<eng> Scots, truker, trukier, deceitful person (MacB.).]

<gai>tuilbheum<eng> m. obstacle 623 [lit. torrent; <gai>tuil,<eng> flood + <gai>beum,<eng> blow.]

<gai>turachail<eng> f. rocking, swaying from side to side 884. [variant of <gai>turrachdail<eng> (TGSI, xxxvii, p. 9).]


<gai>uidhe<eng> f. journey 552. (Mid. Ir. <gai>uide,<eng> journey, march.]

<gai>ùraicean<eng> ? pitchers 44. [? pl. of variant of <gai>ùrach,<eng> small tub (Dw.).]

<gai>ùsaid<eng> f. querulousness 912.


[TD 195-198]

INDEXES


[TD 199-207]

THEMES AND SUBJECTS
