[DA 1]

<eng>THE POETRY OF BADENOCH.


[DA 2]

—“native wood-notes wild.”


[DA 3]

THE
POETRY OF BADENOCH

COLLECTED AND EDITED,
WITH TRANSLATIONS, INTRODUCTIONS,
AND NOTES,

BY
THE REV. THOMAS SINTON,
MINISTER OF DORES.

<gai>O! sid am fonn a chuala mi
An uair a bha mi òg.<eng>
(That was the melody I heard
The time when I was young.)
James Munro.

Inverness:
THE NORTHERN COUNTIES PUBLISHING COMPANY, LTD.
1906.


[DA 4]

[Blank]


[DA 5]

TO
ALBERT C. MACPHERSON
OF CLUNY MACPHERSON,
WHOSE ANCESTORS
ARE RENOWNED IN SONG,
THIS VOLUME IS
DEDICATED
BY
THE EDITOR.


[DA 6]

[Blank]


[DA 7-14]

PREFACE.
[Beurla]


[DA 15-20]

CONTENTS.


[DA 21-24]

LIST OF SUBSCRIBERS.
[Beurla]


[DA 25-37]

INTRODUCTION.
[Beurla]


[DA 38]

[Blank]


[DA 39]

ERRATA.

Page 4, second line of No. V., for <gai>Sìor<eng> read <gai>Sàr.<eng>
Page 22 line 29, for Ian read Iain
Page 51 line 28 for <gai>leòbach<eng> read <gai>leòlach.<eng>
Page 72 line 10, for daughter read grand-daughter.
Page 89 line 14, for Catherine of Keppoch read Anne, daughter of Donald Gorm and niece of Glengarry.
Page 142 line 2, of No. LXXXIX. for <gai>cho<eng> read <gai>cha.<eng>
Page 160 line 27, for Gollovie read Gallovie.
Page 217, No. CXXVII. as refrain read <gai>C’arson a bhiodh, etc.
Page 281, the note is connected with word marked 6.
Page 317, line 7, for Lagan read Lagain.
Page 350 line 17, for <gai>As<eng> read <gai>Ris.<eng>
Page 557 line 15, instead of “From Him,” etc., read “Him whom I was long expecting, my confirmed eye beholds.”


[DA 40]

[Blank]


[TD 1]

THE POETRY OF BADENOCH.

SECTION FIRST.

SONGS OF FEELING.

THE above designation has been adopted for the sake of convenience, to describe, more or less accurately, a posy of verses upon a variety of themes, and of diverse form and shade. Some give expression to that passionate attachment to familiar places, which is always characteristic of the Celtic nature; others are imbued with a strangely mystic vein that affects the mind like touches of a wild unknown; while not a few speak in simple terms, of the joys and sorrows of domestic and social life in days gone by.


I.

It was shortly after I had begun to take down as much as I could of the traditionary songs of Badenoch, that an old woman incidentally, and with great depth of feeling, repeated this plaintive verse in my hearing, the very music of whose lines is in such exquisite harmony with the varied scenes of nature to which it refers. The wild and grand is nowhere more happily blended, or contrasted, with the soft and gentle than in the scenery of Glenfeshie.


[TD 2]

The peaceful seclusion of its warm woods, where the noise of the wind sweeping downwards to the valley of the Spey, is laden with “treasured dreams of time long past;” the swift flowing current of the river, whose pure sparkling waters make their way by many a bank and brae tufted with heather and berry-bushes overshadowed by tall firs; and the sympathetic human heart, that, of old, was melted with tender affection for those very sights and sounds,—all this I felt borne in upon my mind, as I listened to this ancient and beautiful apostrophe to Glenfeshie, for the first and last time.

<gai>Gleann Feisidh nan siantan!
Leam bu mhiann bhi ’n ad fhasgath,
Far am faighinn a’ bhroighleag,
An oighreag, ’s an dearcag,
Cnothan cruinn air a’ challduinn,
’S iasg dearg air na h-easan.<eng>


II.

It is probable that mostly all the names connected with every countryside in the Highlands, have been fashioned into rhyme. The heights enumerated in this catalogue, belong to that portion of the Monadh Liath range, lying between Kingussie and Craig Dhubh:

<gai>Creag Bheag Chinn a’ Ghiùbhsaich,
Creag Mhór Bhail’ a Chrothain,
Beinne Bhuidhe na Stròine,
Creag an Lòin aig na croitean,
Sithean Mór Dhail a’ Chaorainn,
Creag an Abhaig a’ Bhail’ Shìos,


[TD 3]

Creag Liath a’ Bhail’ Shuas,
’S Creag Dhubh Bhiallaid.
Cadha ’n Fhéidh Lochain Ubhaidh,
Cas is mollaicht’ tha ann;
Cha ’n fhàs feur no fodar ann,
Ach sochagan is dearganan allt,—
Gobhar air ’aodainn,
Is laosboc air a’ cheann.<gai>


III.

Here are a couple of verses referring to localities in the <eng>Monadh Ruadh<gai>—i.e., the Red Mountains,—which was a term commonly applied to the range of hills extending on the opposite side of the valley of the Spey, from that occupied by the <gai>Monadh Liath,<eng> or Grey Mountains. Our bard, who had frequented the wild outlying regions of Gaick and Glenfeshie, contrasted them unfavourably with Drumuachter, which, to be sure, could boast the two stage-houses of Dalwhinnie and Dalnacardoch,—not to mention Tigh a’ Mhunaidh, i.e., the House of Hills, that stood between. Here, even in those times, scenes of gaiety were witnessed, when gentlemen flocked thither for sport, “with red musket on shoulder.”

<gai>Bha mi ’m Bran, an Cuile ’s an Gàidhig,
’N Eadairt, agus Leum na Làrach,
Am Feisidh Mhóir, bho ’bun gu ’bràighe,
’S b’ annsa leam bhi ’n Allt a’ Bhàthaich,

’S mòr a b’ fhearr leam bhi ’n Drum Uachdair,
Na bhi ’n Gàidhig nan creag gruamach;
Far am faicinn ann na h-uailsean,
’S iùbhaidh dhearg air bharr an gualainn.<eng>


[TD 4]

IV.

A “land question” had occupied the thoughts of a certain maiden long ago. She tells that, if she had the disposal of properties, there was a fair-haired youth of her acquaintance, who would come in for a goodly portion:

<gai>Ach nam bithinns’ roghainn na fearainn,
Cha bhiodh Tearlach Ruadh dhe falamh;

Bu leat-s’ Strath h-Eireann is Strath Naruinn,
Ard na Saoire ’s Clach na h-Aire.

Fhuair thu mi ’n am chaileig shuaraich,
’S mi leigeil a’ chruidh ’s a’ bhuaile’:

Sgealb thu ’n cogan, ’s bhris thu ’m buarach,
’S thog thu mi gu gnìomh mnà uailse.<eng>


V.

The <gai>Creag Liath<eng>—Grey Rock—referred to in the following pleasing catch, is on the farm of Moccoul, over against Gallovie. This was the chorus connected with a character dance, in which a làr-chaibe, or flauchter-spade, used in cutting turf, was introduced:

<gai>Sìor-bhuain cùlaig, (1)
Sìor-bhuain cùlaig,
Sìor-bhuain cùlaig,
Air a Chreig Léith.

Thusa ’g a gearradh,
Mise ’g a rùsgadh,
Sìor-bhuain cùlaig,
Air a’ Creig Léith.<eng>


(1) A large piece of turf placed at the back of the fire.


[TD 5]

VI.

What lover of Gaelic poetry has not felt the exquisite charm that belongs to most of the fairy songs. This tender wail of grief is supposed to express the feelings of a poor mother, who was stolen by the denizens of the green knowes. Still frequenting the neighbourhood of her old home, she knew that her children were subjected to ill-treatment at the hands of a cruel step-mother, but was under a spell that prevented her from communicating with them.

<gai>Nach truagh leat mi ’n nochd;
O ìrriri O!
Bho chnocan gu cnoc;
O ìrriri O!
’S bho slochdan gu slochd;
O ìrriri O!
Le gaoir an t-sluaigh bhochd;
O ìrriri O!
Nach truagh leat mo chlann;
O ìrriri O!
’S bean eil’ air an ceann;
O ìrriri O!
Nan tigeadh tu nall,
O ìrriri O!
Gu ’n cìrinn do cheann.
O ìrriri O!<eng>


VII.

The following verse has an unmistakeable sough of that weird supernatural world, to which our fore-fathers in these glens felt so near. At the hour of


[TD 6]

midnight, the ghostly visitant appeared, and uttered this fell rhyme:

<gai>Tha ’n oidhche ’n nochd ro ànranach,
’S an geamhradh fada fuar;
Leig crùban aig do chasan dhomh,
Gar am faigh mi ach leth uair.<eng>


VIII.

What a delightful little confabulation have we here between a lamb and a kid:

<gai>Ors’ am meannan ris an uan,
Ors’ an t-uan ris a’ mheannan,—
“Cha teid mi ’na chreig ud shuas,”
Ors’ an t-uan ris a’ mheannan.

“Air eagal a’ mhadaidh ruaidh.”
Ors’ an t-uan ris a mheannan,
Thuirt am meannan ris an uan,
“’S ann tha bhuainn dol a’ mhireadh.”<eng>


IX.

<gai>“’N Coille Chnò Taobh Loch Lagain,”<eng> are the only words that linger in memory, of an old plaintive refrain associated with the Nut-wood on Loch Laggan-side, and mingling fondly, in fancy, with those fair scenes of nature, upon which my gaze first looked forth.

<gai>Chualas banaltrum ri ceòl
Do ’n urr-òg bha ’n a h-achlais;
’Togail luinneig a bu bhòich,—
“’N Coille Chnò Taobh Loch Lagain.”


[TD 7]

Bha Beinn Eallair fada thall,
Ann an samhchair na maduinn;
Bha na Binneanan le ’n crann’
’Snamh gu fann fo Loch Lagain.

Breac a’ mhuiltein air an speur,
’S an uisg réidh ’laidh’ gun mhilleadh;
Na h-eoin bhuchlach feadh nan geug,—
Cheileir fhéin aig gach ribheid;

Caochan beag ri ciurlan mìn,—
Lus-bhan-sìth leth ’g a fholach;
Bha an fheudail air an fhiar—
Bha na caoirich ’s a’ mhonadh.

Cha robh duine beò ’n an còir,
B’ urrainn ’h-òran a dh-aithris,—
’S i bhi seinn mu ’n choille chnò,
’N Coille Chnò Taobh Loch Lagain.

Bidh an duilleach dosrach trom,
’Greas’ gu fonn ’n uair thig Samhuinn;
’S lìonar gagan buidhe-dhonn
Chaidh le tonn Allt-a-Chrannaig.

Chuir da fhichead bliadhn’ ach cóig—
Latha ’s oidhche—an car dhuibh;
’S tha ’bhan-òranaich’ fo ’n fhóid,—
Muthadh mór air an leanamh.

B’ fhada thaghaich mi na glinn
Eadar Spé agus Pataig;
Cha robh creag, no craobh, no linn,
Feadh nan crìoch sin nach b’ aithn’ dhomh.

’S ioma luinneag agus ceòl—
’S iomadh òran bhiodh againn;
Ach cha d’ éisdear riamh ni ’s mò,—
“’N Coille Chnò Taobh Loch Lagain.”


[TD 8]

Fhad ’s a leanas rium an deò—
Fhad ’s is beò mi air thalamh,
Cha dhì-chuimhnich mi le ’m dheòin,
Coille Chnò Taobh Loch Lagain.<eng>

T. S.


X.

While, so to speak, within view of Loch Laggan I may be permitted to set down some further verses that were suggested by recollections of that romantic region. I often wonder whether coveys of ptarmigan still frequent—as of old they did—certain grey ravines and stony heights of the <gai>Creag Mhor,<eng> where often in the early morning, at sheep-gathering, the well-known cry and whirr of wings sent a thrill of pleasure to one’s heart.

<gai>AN TARMACHAN.

’N trath sheideas an doinionn,
Le fuar-fhead air monadh,
’S e teurnadh ’n a chorruich,
Bho sgòr-bheann a’ cheò’,
’S ann chìt’ thu gu surdail,
’Sìor-éiridh air chuairteig,
’Dol mach ris na stuaghan
’Bu ghruamaiche neoil.

Ged bhruchdas ’n a chathadh,
An sneachd le clach-mheallain,
Cha chuir e ort farran.
No smal air do shùil;
Air dìonadh bho chunnart—
Ri gean ’s fearas-chuideachd,—
Geal-doimhneachd na cuithe
’G ur dùnadh mu ’n cuairt.


[TD 9]

Thug nadur dhuit falluinn,
Ga d’ chluthachadh tharais,
Tha d’ iteagan cannach
Am falach ’s a’ chlòimh;
Cha dhruidh air an reotha,
’S thu cruadalach fotha,
’S do chirean beag: corrach,
Mar chorcur an ròis.

’S tu euchdag nam binnean,
An éididh bu ghrinne,
Mar chanach air ghilead,
Aig tìm na Feill Brìd’;
’S cha mhiosa dad idir
An dreach thig ort rithisd,
Mar chrotal an fhirich
Fo shrideagan glìb’.

Cha b’ fhiù leat na srathan,
No doire nam badan,
Bu choma leat baileach
’Bhi fanachd am fròig;
Gaoth fhìor-ghlan a’ mhullaich,
’Bhi ’n uaigneas bho dhuine,
Fo speuran mòr cruinne,
Bu dùchas do d’ sheors’.

Bu mhiann leat ’bhi criomadh
Feur-creachainn bu mhilis,
Nan dearcagan-fithich,
’S nan oighreagan maoth;
’S gu’n toir thu sgrìob ealamh
Air tòir nan lus ainneamh
’S na glacagan ’s aithn’ duit
Air leacainn an fhraoich.

[TD 10]

A shamhradh—a ’s t-fhaghar—
’S mi dìreadh nan aghaidh,
Air nàile! bu laghach
’Bhi ’m fradharc do linn!
’S iad gluasad gu minic—
’S am feasgar air tighinn—
Mu thimchioll an iris
Fo bhil’ nan clach lia.

Aig gormadh an latha,
Gu ’m b’ annsa ’bhi mar-riut
Gu h-ard air na cragan,
’N uair lasadh a’ ghrian;
Bhi ’g eisdeachd do challain
’Cur fàilt’ air a’ mhaduinn—
Mac-talla le ath-ghuth
’Ga aithris gu dian.

Mo ghuidh dhuit, an geartair!
’S mi cian-fhad gun d’ fhaicinn
Le d’ chombaich, mar chleachd mi,
Feadh chreachann nam maol:—
Na ruigeadh ort pudhar
Bho fhìreun! bho shionnach!
’S droch-dhìol air a’ ghunna
’Bheir buille ’n ad thaobh.<eng>

T. S.


XI.

This may be regarded as the favourite <gai>port-a-beul,<eng> or dancing song, of Badenoch. It refers to the famous sheilings on Loch Ericht side, whither so many of the inhabitants of the valley of the Spey resorted in summer.

[TD 11]

<gai>Theid sinn null gu Taobh Loch Eireachd,
Theid sinn null gu Taobh Loch Eireachd,
Theid sinn null gu Taobh Loch Eireachd,
’N uair a thig an Samhradh.

Theid na muilt a dh’ Allt an Tiobair,
Theid na muilt a dh’ Allt an Tiobair,
Theid na muilt a dh’ Allt an Tiobair,
’N uair a thig an Samhraidh.

Theid iad ann, ma theid iad idir, etc.<eng>

Each year, when Beltane came round, the crofters’ township presented a scene of busy pre-preparation for the glens. Then happy groups would set out for their appointed sheilings, driving their cattle, sheep, and goats to the upland grazing, and ever and anon joining in some such blithe chorus as the above; wherein favourite pastoral resorts would be enumerated, in so far as the rhythm of their names could be got to fall in with the measures of the tune.


XII.

Margaret Gow, who, though a native of Rannoch, was well acquainted with Badenoch and its poetry, gives picturesque expression to the joyous spirit which the summer flitting called forth in the hearts of old and young.

<gai>Fhir a shiùbhlas uam thar a’ Bhealaich!
Thoir uam soiridh gu Taobh Loch Eireachd,
Gu Beinn’ Udlamain ’s am bi ’n eilid,
Gu bràigh an Sgùlain ’s gu Loch an t-Searraich.
Hì iùr o, no iùr éil.
Hì iùr o, no iùr éil,
Hì iùr o, no iùr éil,
’Smi air srath na tìre, ’s gur beag mo spéis de.


[TD 12]

Beir uam soiridh dh’ ionnsuidh ’n t-Seann Ruigh,
Carn an Fhùdair is an Sgùlain,
An Aonaich Mhòir tha ’m bràigh an àiridh,—
’S gu ’m b’ ann do ’m dhùchus na Lùban.

Là na h-imrich, ’n uair a dh’ fhalbhainn,
Rachainn timchioll air a’ mheanbh-chrodh,
Leiginn m’ anail air a’ Gharbh-Dhùn.
’S air Lùb Bad Chearc, gu ’n caidlinn anmoch.

’N uair a théid mi mach mu ’n chabhsair,
Leam cha ’n eibhneas ceòl nan àrd-chlag:—
An crodh ’s a’ gheumnaich mach mu ’n àiridh,
’S a ghrian a’ tearnadh fo sgéith Beinn Eallair.<eng>

Wordsworth has nowhere more happily transfused into words the power of nature, than has our poetess in those two last lines that depict an evening scene at the sheilings, haloed by a mystic light of “pastoral melancholy.”

And how sweetly does this stanza that was introduced into many a croon throughout the central Highlands, instil upon the imagination a peep of the sheilings in the liquid summer night and glimmering dawn, where the light sleepers, within their bothies, might hear the melody of birds above the sound of some rippling stream hard by, lined with clumps of birch or alder, and be aroused by the bellowing of deer ere the broad disc of the sun showed over the mountain brow!—

<gai>Bidh an coileach dubh ’s an smùdan
’Dianamh ciùil duinn air bharr chranna;
’S bidh am fiadh ann ’s a bhùireadh,
Ga n-ar dùsgadh ’s a’ mhaduinn.<eng>


[TD 13]

The black-cock and the stock-dove,
For us make music on the branches;
And the deer in time of roaring,
Will awake us in the morning.


XIII.

When resident in Perth, Mrs Gow was greatly surprised to hear wild-berries being offered for sale:

<gai>Dar chual mise na dearcan
Bhi ’g an reic airson fiach,
Ghrad bhuail air mo bheachd-sa
Coire Bhachdaidh nam fiadh.<eng>


XIV.

Many a Gaelic song that consists of only a single stanza, is a complete idyl in itself, like the following:

<gai> ’G iomain nan gamhn’ tha mulad orm,
’G iomain nan gamhn’ ’s mi sgìth;
’G iomain nan gamhn’ tha mulad orm,
’Gabhail an rathaid leam-fhìn.<eng>


XV.

The late Principal Shairp of St Andrews used frequently to express a desire that the songs of the sheilings would be collected and published. He was strongly of opinion that in them lay a rich vein of poetry, believing that they belonged to the most beautiful aspect of old Highland life.


[TD 14]

The <gai>bothan-àiridh<eng> was usually constructed of turf walls on a foundation of stone, roofed over, and thatched with heather and rushes. Its interior arrangements were very simple,—

<gai>Leabaidh dhe ’n luachair,
Is cluasag dhe ’n fhraoch.<eng>

A bed of rushes,
A pillow of heather.

Close by was the <gai>buaile,<eng> or fold, immortalised in song. Here, while the cattle were being milked, the songs of the sheilings might be heard to best advantage. But it was not in the nature of things that the melodies then employed could be of a very lively character. Most frequently,

“The plaintive numbers flow
For old, unhappy, far off things,
And battles long ago.”

In Greek mythology, the protection of flocks and cattle was ascribed to the god of music and song. Thessalian and Highland dairymaids alike associated their pursuits with that art which, “hath charms to soothe the savage breast.” Let the ingenious reader who peruses these lines, suppose that it is milking-time at the sheilings, and that, along with the hill-herds, he, too, may draw near and lean over the rails of the fold to listen, while some croons are being sung to soothe other attentive ears.

<gai>Tha buarach shìoda,
Tha buarach shìoda,
Tha buarach shìoda
Air m’ aghan gaoil.


[TD 15]

’N uair bhios an sìoman
Air crodh na tìre,
Bidh buarach shìoda
Air m’ aghan gaoil.

’N uair bhios am fodar
Air crodh nam bodach,
Bidh buarach shìoda
Air m’ aghan gaoil.

’N uair thig an geamhradh,
Is gainne ’n fhodair,—
Crodh nam bodach,
Cha tog iad àl.

Ach ged bhithinns’
Gun sguab a’ m’ shobhal.
Chuirinn cobhar
Air gogan làn.

’N uair theid mise
’S mo chuid aighean,
Roimh an latha,
Do Ruigh-Chaol.

’S mor mo mhunnachag,
’S trom mo mhuighe,
’S leathan, buidhe,
Mo chuid laogh.


XVI.

Iù hóileagan, iù hó! m’ aighean,
Iù hóileagan, iù hó! m’ aighean,
Iù hóileagan, iù hó! m’ aighean,
Mo chrodh-laoigh is m’ aighean,
Air gach taobh de ’n amhuinn.


[TD 16]

M’ fheudail a chrodh, gur h-i ’ghuaill-fhionn,
Cha b’i ’cheann-fhionn bó bu shuaraich’,
Beannachd banaraich’ is buachaill,—
Cha bhiodh tu duilich do chualach’!

’S math is aithne dhomh do mhathair,
Nighean Glasaig—ogha Blàraig;
’S tric a lìon thu an stòp-càirt domh,
’S cha bhiodh air mo mhuirnean fàillinn.


XVII.

Thoir am bainne,
Thoir am bainne,
Thoir am bainne,
A mhaol-donn!

Thoir am bainne
Gu cuachach, cannach,
Thoir am bainne,
A mhaol-donn!

Thoir am bainne
’N a ruith ’s ’n a dheannaibh,
Thoir am bainne,
A mhaol-donn!

Tha Fear Chluainidh
Tighinn ’n a’ bhaile,
Thoir am bainne,
A mhaol-donn!<eng>


XVIII.

<gai>Crodh Chailein!<eng> What pleasant associations are awakened by the very mention of this ubiquitous and grand old pastoral, so redolent of the heathery


[TD 17]

brae and breezy muirland! It comes to us like a strain of enchantment from a dim and distant past.

The version given here is that which was sung throughout Braemar, Badenoch, and Strathspey. It was taken down from recitation at Lùb nan Damh in Kincardine, a couple of generations ago; and I feel greatly indebted to my friend Dr Forsyth of Abernethy, for having preserved it, and placed it at my disposal. Badenoch has a variant of its own upon this version, in which local place-names—such as Gleann Truim—are woven into the song. The maiden who composed these verses, is said to have engaged as dairymaid with an elderly couple, whom she accompanied to the sheilings. A son of her employer’s fell in love with her, and this romantic attachment gave occasion to the song. According to this tradition, Cailean was the name of the girl’s master.

<gai>Crodh Chailein, Crodh Chailein,
Crodh Chailein, mo ghaoil,
Crodh riabhach breac ballach,
Air dhath nan eun-fraoich.

Tha a’ chailinn gun leannan,
’S tha ’m balach gun mhnaoi,
’S tha a’ bhuarach, ’s a’ chuinneag
Anns a’ mhunadh air chall.

Tha a’ chailleach ’s i bodhar,
’S tha ’m bodach ’s e cam,
’S cha léir dhoibh ’n crodh ’bhleoghann,
Le ceò odhar nan carn.

’S iad mo gradh-sa crodh Chailein,
’Bheir am bainn’ air an fhraoch.
Air mullach a’ mhunaidh,
Gun duine ’n an taobh.

[TD 18]

Air mullach a’ mhunaidh,
Gun duine ’n an taobh,
Le gogan, gun bhuarach,
Gun lao’icin, (1) gun laogh.

’S i bó Bean-an-taighe—
Bó leathann, dhubh-liath;
Bó lìonadh an gogan,
’S bó thogail nan laogh.

’S cha ’n eil leithid mo bhà-sa
Ann am bàthaich an righ;
Cluinnear ’geum ’an Dùn-Eudainn,
’S i-fhéin ’an Gleann Laoigh.

’S ’n uair ’thigeadh am feasgar,
’S àm eadradh nan laogh,
Gu ’n tig mo ghaol dachaidh,
’N déigh ’bhi cosgradh an fhéidh.

’S ge b’ oil leis an fhorsair,
’S ged a chailleadh e ’chiall,
Bidh mise ’s mo leannan
Ann an gleannan nam fiadh.

’Dol a mach ri Gleann Eigh,
’S ’tigh ’nn a ’s tigh air Gleann Dé,
Bho ghleannan gu gleannan,
Sìor-leanail an fhéidh.

Bho ghleannan gu gleannan,
Sìor-leanail an fhéidh,—
(2) Far an caidil na h-aighean,
’S na minn ri an taobh.

Cha ’n eil mo mhiann sìthne
’N Gleann Sìth no ’n Gleann Dé,
No idir ’n Gleann Tatha,
No ’n Garbh-choireachan Dhé.<eng>


(1) A calf’s skin stuffed with straw and placed beside a cow, so that she may give her milk.

(2) These lines did not form part of this version.


[TD 19]

<gai>Cha téid mi ’n a Bheachan,
No a ghleidheadh nan laogh;
Bidh fear a’ bhreacain chaoil, chabhaich,
’G am fheitheamh ’s an fhraoch.<eng>


XIX.

To Dr Forsyth I am also indebted for the following very pretty lines:

<gai>Eirich mu ’n éirich a’ ghrian,
Siubhail dian mu ’n tig an teas,
Ruig mullach a Chuirn Ghuirm,
Far am faic thu thall is bhos.

Chi mi poit a’ Ghlinne Mhoir,
Chi mi Bu-choinnich is Beag-ghleann,
Chi mi Gleann Einich an fhéidh,
Far am biodh an spréidh air eadradh.<eng>


XX.

It may also be convenient to insert here another verse derived from the same source as the above pieces.

<gai>Latha dhomh air cabhsair Shasuinn,
Faicinn fasan nan each reangach;—(1)
B’ fhearr bhi air mullach na h-Eileireig, (2)
Fos cinn coille Ràt-a’ mhurchais.<eng>


XXI.

Intimately associated with the sheilings was the fairy-knowe; and the good folks who inhabited it were—like others who shall be nameless—deeply in-


(1) The Scots Greys.

(2) <gai>Carn Eileireig<eng> is a very picturesque hill, standing out like an advanced guard of the Cairngorms.


[TD 20]

terested in the affairs of their immediate neighbours. They glided familiarly among the folds and the bothies, listened to the songs in the gloaming, and, in fact, knew all that went on. As for themselves, they milked the deer on the mountain tops, and had in their possession all the requisite appurtenances of a Highland dairy. The women of the sheilings could often hear the mystic melody, which arose on the still air of evening, during the elfin milking; and so it has come about, that the songs of the sheilings contain many soft, siren strains, which were believed to have had their source in fairyland. One cannot help mentioning—<eng>entre nous<gai>, dear reader, let it be!—that the green-kirtled ones were a race to be avoided as much as possible. They were vindictive and mischief-making to a degree; while their thievish propensities were a constant cause of worry to mothers and dairymaids!

A <gai>buachaille-monaidh,<eng> or hill-herd, had been wandering all day over the <gai>Monadh Liath<eng> mountains in search of goats. While his quest was yet in vain, the sun sank to rest behind the hills. Shortly thereafter, he suddenly heard the low, sweet sounds of song. He looked, and saw a fairy milking the deer, within a short distance of him. Acting on the impulse of the moment, he fitted an arrow to his bow, and let it fly at the vision. It struck the milk-cog—which was, of course, under the left side of the deer (1)—and its owner thus rudely interrupted called out:

<gai>Tapadh leat, ’Fhearchair!
’S tapaidh d’ urchair,
’S leat fhein a’ bhuarach,—
‘S do ghogan, ’s do bhleoghann.<eng>


(1) Fairies were believed to do all their milking on the sinister side of whatever animals they might take in hand!


[TD 21]

Thanks to thee, Farquhar!
Clever thy shot.
Thine be the fetter,
The milk-cog, and milking.

By her words, Farquhar immediately understood that she acknowledged herself to be vanquished. This was a most important point in rencontres with the denizens of the knowes. Resolved to make the most of his good fortune, before he suffered the fairy to depart, he made her promise to bestow upon him his three first desires; which were wealth, etc. Presenting him with the milk-cog, she assured him that so long as a stave of it remained in the possession of his family, no evil influence could affect their cattle. In conclusion she said—<gai>“Tha fhios agam ciod tha thu ’g iarraidh:”<eng> i.e., “I know what you are seeking:” and thereupon directed him to the place where his goats were to be found. It is whispered that portions of the fairy cog are still treasured by Farquhar’s descendants.


XXII.

The first verse, forming the chorus of this weird fragment, is connected with a familiar fairy tale. What the particular tragedy was, to which the subjoined stanzas point, no man can tell; and the Forest of Gaick, where it took place, keeps its own counsel. Hearing this little ballad, for the first and only time, sung by a woman almost ninety years of age, I endeavoured to ascertain from her what event had occasioned it, but with evident signs of impatience she said abruptly, that it had to do with elf-land; and upon that I knew it would be useless to pursue the subject further.


[TD 22]

<gai>Chì mi ’n toman caorruinn, cuilinn,
Chì mi ’n toman caorruinn thall;
Chì mi ’n toman caorruinn, cuilinn.
’S laogh mo chèill’ air ’uilinn ann.

’N creagan dubh taobh Loch-an-t-Seilich,
Far an d’ rinn mi ’n cadal séimh;
’S n uair a dhùisg mi ’s a’ mhaduinn,
Cha robh leth mo leabaidh ann.

Dh’ éirich mi moch maduinn Earraich,
Agus sheall mi mach an gleann;
Sùil dha ’n d’ thug mi thar mo ghualainn,
Bha d’ cheum uallach suas nam beann.

Ach nam b’ aithne dhomhs’ an rathad
Gu Bean-tighe an Uillt-Bhàin, (1)
Dh’ innseadh dhomh mu eirigh gréine,
An e fuil an fhéidh bha ann.<eng>


XXIII.

Long before the disaster which overwhelmed Captain Macpherson and his companions, the forest of Gaick was regarded throughout Badenoch as a place of evil omen—a veritable haunt of horrors. Within its recesses lies Loch Yrottin, beneath whose waters Mac Gille ’n Naoimh’s soi-disant hound and the famous white stag of Ben Alder disappeared. Near Loch an Dùin, the rash lover of a fearful tale met his fate. On the rocky slopes of <gai>Loch an t-Seilich,<eng> the wicked Lord Comyn was torn in pieces by eagles, as he rode from Atholl, intending to consummate his unhallowed scheme. It was in Gaick, too, that Muireach Mac Ian, the hunter, experienced


(1) This was a wise woman, who, at the moment of sunrise, was supposed to have the power of exercising her supernatural gifts to best advantage.


[TD 23]

the last proof of the poor Wife of Laggan’s versatility in the black art.

The scene of the well-known legend which Scott has connected with Glenfinlas, in his ballad of that name, the sennachies of Badenoch have always laid in Gaick. When the hunter escaped from the demons by stratagem, and leapt upon the back of the good horse, he was chanting this verse:

<gai>Tha gaoth mhor air Loch an t-Seilich,
Tha gaoth eil’ air Loch an Dùin,
Ruigidh mise Loch a’ Bhrodainn,
Mu ’n téid cadal air mo shùil.

Tha gaoth mhór, mhór, mhór,
Tha gaoth mhór air an Dùn, etc., etc.<eng>


XXIV.

Numberless are the stray verses which have floated down, as it were, upon their own music through many generations. Some stanzas bear evidence of the turbulent times in which they originated. Here is a note of warning which some pitying milkmaid adroitly inserted into the croon of <gai>“Crodh Chailein,”<eng> in order to arouse the intended victim to a sense of imminent and mortal danger:

<gai>Nach dùisg thu! nach dùisg thu!
Nach dùisg thu, ’fhir ruaidh!
’S an fhoill air do chùl-thaobh,
Nach dùisg thu, ’fhir ruaidh!<eng>


XXV.

Let us now turn to a reminiscence of the days of cattle-lifting, when the good-wives of Badenoch sometimes awaked to find that, in the course of the

[TD 24]

night, their folds had been despoiled by the enterprising raiders from Lochaber;

<gai>Hóró! dìridh sinn,
Teurnaidh sinn, dìridh sinn,
Hóró! dìridh sinn,
Teurnaidh sinn ’Chruadhlainn.
Gur ann e Loch Abair,
A thàin an fheadhainn bhradach,
Nach d’ fhàg iad mart againn,
A dhìreadh a’ Ghualainn.<eng>

In this connection it will be appropriate to set down a legend which was related to me by the great-grand-daughter of one of the persons concerned. Griatach and Caitrìona—two young wives—were alone at the sheilings near the head of Loch Pattock,—a remote pasture, which now forms part of the great Forest of Ben-Alder. At the dead of night they heard the cattle lowing, and knew that the men of Lochaber had made a foray, and were now in the act of carrying off their cherished fold.

<gai>“O! ciod e nì sinn?” thubhairt Caitrìona.<eng>
“O! what shall we do?” said Catherine.
<gai>“Nì, an toirt bhuapa!” fhreagair Griatach.<eng>
“We shall do to take them from them,” replied Grace.

Acting under the directions of this amazon, they hurriedly took the shafts of the churns, and fastening to them every metallic article within reach, the two lone women sallied forth thus armed, and commenced the pursuit of the despoilers. Griatach had a loud, gruff voice, with which she commenced to whoop and haloo in imitation of a body of men, while Caitrìona was content to supply the more shrill notes which the women of the sheiling might


[TD 25]

be expected to contribute to the uproar. They soon overtook the cow-lifters, and the cattle, recognising through every disguise the voices of their mistresses, broke off in all directions. Meanwhile the Lochaber men, finding it impossible to retain their booty in the darkness, and hearing, as they supposed, the voices of enraged pursuers and the clangour of arms, concluded that they had fallen into an ambush, and were fain to beat a retreat for home.

Some similar feat is celebrated in the words of the lively quick-step:

<gai>Chaidh na fir a ruagadh
Le gruagaichean Doch an Fhasaidh:
Am faca sibh na ’n cual’ sibh.
An d’ fhuair iad an rathad dachaidh?<eng>

The men were put to flight,
By the maidens of Dochanassie
Saw ye, or heard ye,
If they got home in safety?

The best account to which I ever listened of the Loss of Gaick, commenced with an incident, which, like the first scene in Macbeth, well prepared the mind for the supernatural element which was to permeate the story.

A lonely spot among the hills, between Nuide and Gaick, was known as Ruighe Bhad Fheàrna. (1) One night in the autumn of 1799, the occupants of the sheiling which stood there, consisting of a mother with her young children, and a little servant girl named Annack, were alarmed by a terrible confusion of sounds outside. The noise seemed to indicate that they were surrounded by a crowd of people. At dawn, <gai>gormadh an latha<eng>, (2) they ventured


(1) The Alder-Clump Sheiling.

(2) The blueing of day.

[TD 26]

to look out, but were unable to discover any trace of the nocturnal visitants. The woman dispatched Annack in haste to the strath for her husband, who sent back a message to say that he would go to the bothie in the evening when he drove up the horses; and he had to continue for the remainder of that season to spend every night at the Ruighe with his family. When Christmas-tide came, and with it the great disaster, the party, who were carrying the bodies from Gaick, halted at that sheiling and partook of refreshments. The inference was quite obvious. My authority was one of the children who lived to be upwards of fourscore, and to whom I am indebted for many reliques of Badenoch Poetry.

About the same date as the above uncanny coincidence of events, the winter fodder ran short, and the good-wife had to take the cattle to the sheiling much earlier than usual. When there, one of the cows calved, and the prudent mistress gave Annack the key of the cheese-press (<gai>cliath chàise<eng>) (1) telling her to run down and take up a couple of sheaves of barley, which were stored there unknown to anyone. The little maid performed the journey in a marvellously short time, returning with a sheaf under each arm. The invalid cow almost choked in her eagerness to partake of the toothsome morsel that was procured for her, but got on well afterwards.


XXVI.

Mothers, of course, always took their infants with them to the sheilings; and here are some of the maternal croons to which my good old friend had often listened in early life.


(1) A sort of cupboard made of wicker-work, which often stood in the barn.


[TD 27]

<gai>Tha nead na feadaig’
Ann an coill an Lagain, (1)
Ni mo leanamh cadal,
Agus gheibh e ’n t-ian.

Tha nead na h-uiseig’
Ann am bun na h-ursainn,
Ni mo leanamh, etc.

Tha nead a’ chlacharain
Ann am bun a’ chloichearain,
Ni mo leanamh, etc.<eng>


XXVII.

The chorus of this pastoral lullaby would have been worthy the attention of the late Dr Charles Mackay, when he was engaged upon the investigation of such-like things.

<gai>A rann, dann, dadlum,
A rannta, rannta, ràdhainn,
A ranndaidh, dadlum,
A rannta, rioba, lionn.

Guidhidh mi don’-iarraidh,
Dha na bhean a dh’ fheoraich.
An robh mo leanamh bliadhna,—
’S gu ’n robh e air na cìochan,
’S gu ’n robh e gu geal ciatach.

Guidhidh mi grad-sgàineadh
Do na cailean musach, gnàda,
’N an suidhe air an àiridh.
Gun duine ’thoir a lamh dhaibh.<eng>


(1) Laggan of Nuide.


[TD 28]

<gai>Mo leanamh cùbhraidh, cùirteasach,
Gu ’n dìreadh tu na h-uchdaichean,
Gu ’n ceangladh tu na cuplaichean,
’S gu ’n leagadh tu na trupaichean.<eng>


XXVIII.

One other similar rhyme obtained from the same quarter may be given. It was, no doubt, the composition of some epicurean herd-boy!

<gai>Hìm! ham! hìm! hó!
Sud an rud a b’ fhearr leam,
Hìm! ham! hìm! hó!
Im buidhe ’n t-Samhraidh.

Hìm! ham! hìm! hó! etc.
Uibhean nan seann chearcan.

Hìm! ham! hìm! hó! etc.
Bainne nan gamhnaichean.<eng>


XXIX.

Along with the various utensils indispensible for a dairy, the good-wives were careful to bring a supply of wool, and the simple instruments required for dressing and spinning the same. These, it need hardly be told, included the classic <gai>cuigeal<eng> and <gai>dealgan,<eng> i.e., the distaff and spindle.

Upon the day after the females from a farm in the parish of Laggan had gaily departed for the <gai>àiridh,<eng> it was discovered that, in their haste, they had left the wool cards behind. Although they had carried off the big wheel in triumph, without the humbler implements it could be of no use. Their

[TD 29]

master being of a facetious turn, made this omission the subject of a song, of which here are a couple of verses;

<gai>Gur fonn—fonn—fonnmhor,
Gur fonnmhor na caileagan,
A dh’ fhalbh mu ‘n tràth-s’ an dé,
Leis an spréidh ’s leis a’ chalanas.

A dh’ fhalbh mu ’n tràth-s’ and dé,
Leis an spréidh ’s leis a’ chalanas,—
A’ chuibhle-sniòmh gun chardan,
’S cha ’n iarr a bann a teannachadh.<eng>


XXX.

Early one autumn morning a crofter, from Little Nuide unexpectedly visited the sheilings, and finding his children sound asleep, he awoke them with this madrigal:

<gai>Hó, ro! gur fada, fada,
Hó, ro! gur fada leam,
’S fada leam tha thu gun tighinn,
’Choilich-dhuibh ni bruidhinn rium.

Ceithir ceapachan (1) aig Aindrea,
’S dà ghamhnaich (2) aig Caitrìona,
’S na dh’ fhàgas na laoigh dhe ’n càraid,
Aig an fhear is fhearr is fhiach e.<eng>


XXXI.

The eccentricities of the weather in Badenoch upon a certain day were thus be-rhymed:


(1) Cows whose calves have been weaned.

(2) The milk of farrow cows, as appears from No. XXVIII., was reckoned to be the richest.


[TD 30]

<gai>Cur is cathadh an Dail-eineach;
Grian gheal an Crùbainn;
Sneachd a dh’ fhalaicheadh na cranna,
Air Ràth Ruadhainn.<eng>


XXXII.

<gai>GAOTH MEALL-A-CHUAICH<eng>—THE CUP-HILL WIND.

This, it need hardly be told you, gentle reader, was the favourite wind of Kingussie. Like Notus, or Auster, its great representative in ancient times, it varied slightly in its direction, from due south to south-west; and like Notus too, its qualities and effects changed, to a considerable extent, with certain seasons. But in every mood, it was associated with the smooth rounded summit of the pleasant hill from which it got its name. In spring, it was ever welcomed as the thaw-wind, under whose genial influence the snow and frost of winter relaxed their hold of the country. What native of Kingussie does not retain agreeable recollections of the wondrous amelioration which <gai>Gaoth Meall-a-Chuaich,<eng> when it fairly set in, could effect upon the landscape, upon his feelings, upon all nature, animate and inanimate. Albeit, it is alleged that upon one occasion, the joyous welcome accorded to this wind had a ludicrous result.

<gai>“Gaoth mo chridhe-sa, Gaoth Meall-a-Chuaich,”<eng> cried a worthy householder, when, as he lay in bed, the music of its coming fell upon his ear. <gai>“Eirich a bhean,”<eng> he continued, <gai>“fosgail an dorus, ’s leig ’s tigh Gaoth Meall-a-Chuaich.” Dh’ éirich a bhean, <eng>the story goes on to tell, <gai>’s dh’ fhosgail i an dorus, agus chuir a’ ghaoth an tulchainn as an tigh.<eng> i.e.,


[TD 31]

“Wind beloved of my heart—Wind of <gai>Meall-a-Chuaich.<eng> Rise, goodwife! open the door, and let in the Wind of <gai>Meall-a-Cuaich.”<eng> The goodwife rose and opened the door, and the wind threw out the back wall of the house.

In harvest, this was the best wind for winnowing the corn, so that stooks were, and probably are, so placed as to allow of its passing through them from end to end. The following ode in celebration of our genial visitant, retails some of the happiness which it dispensed throughout the country in the recollection of the writer.

<gai>Binn mar fhonn chlàrsach chluinnteadh an Teamhra, (1)
Thàinig guth m’ annsachd nall thar a’ chuan;
Thòisich a mànran shuas air an fhuar-bheinn,
Osag mo ghraidhsa, Gaoth Meall-a-Chuaich.

B’ fhada bha ’n Geamhradh ’laigh air na crìochan,
Reothadh is cranndachd ’sàruchadh sluaigh;
Tuirling mar b’ àbhaist ’thogail ar n-inntinn,
Teachdair an àigh dhuinn, Gaoth Meall-a-Chuaich.

Uisgeachan Spé le gàire ’cuir fàilt ort,
’Bruanadh na deigh’ a ghlais e fo shuain;
Cas-uilt gu léir ’n an cuairteagan dannsaidh,
’Freagairt na h-éigh bho Ghaoth Meall-a-Chuaich.

Sgaoileadh do sgiathan glas-neulach, braonach,
Taisich gach lianag, leacainn, is bruach;
Gluais tre na glinn ’s an caidil a’ mhaoiseach,
’S toigh leis an lia-chearc Gaoth Meall-a-Chuaich.

Analaich bhàn air seilich na h-amhna,
Tilg thair a’ challtuinn clòimhteach ’na duail;
’S bidh coille nan crann ag osnaich am pràmh-cheo,
’G aideach’ gu ’n d’ thàinig Gaoth Meall-a-Chuaich.<eng>


(1) Tùra, or Taura, in Ossian; now Tara, as in Moore’s Irish minstrelsy:—

The harp that once in Tara’s halls,
The soul of music shed.


[TD 32]

<gai>Cuairtich gu sònruicht’ bothan an fheumaich,
Cuidich am bròinein ‘fannach’ le fuachd,
Siubhail gu fòil mu leabaidh na h-easlaint,
Caraid nan deòiridh! Gaoth Meall-a-Chuaich.

Chuala mi eoin ri ceòl anns a’ Bhriagaich,
Chuala mi ’n coileach-dubh goir am Braigh Rua’ inn,
Thall ’s an Loinn Mhór, (1) an guilbearnach ’sgriachail,—
Seinn mar bu choir do Ghaoth Meall-a-Chuaich.

Chunnaic mi neònain ’breacadh a’ ghrianain,
Lusan ag comhdach’ nan tolmanan ruadh,
Luachair an lòin a thanaich na siantan—
Uile ’toirt sgeoil air Gaoth Meall-a-Chuaich.<eng>

T. S.


XXXIII.

The glens and corries around the upper reach of the Spey, extending from the borders of Lochaber to Garvamore, and including the wild region known as <gai>Monadh Dhrumfhinn,<eng> formed the great sheiling ground for the tenantry on the Gordon estates in Laggan. Important rights of common grazing within this area, have continued down to our own time. Long ago, the cattle belonging to the crofters of Crathie, when away at their summer pasturage here, were lost in a strange manner. One day they suddenly broke lose from all control, and entered upon that wild race, called in Gaelic <gai>dol air theas.<eng> (2) Up the sloping ridges of the mountains they careered, until they reached the summit of a gorge which overlooks Loch Laggan and is named Slugan


(1) Loinn, which is an oblique form of lann, signifying an enclosed place, frequently occurs in the topography of Badenoch, e.g.—<gai>Loinn an Ailein, Loinn an Fhuarain, An Loinn Bhreac, Loinn a’ Chlaiginn, Loinn a’ Chait, Loinn a’ Bhuilg, Loinn an t-Samhruidh.<eng>

(2) Going on heat.


[TD 33]

<gai>Coir’ nan Gall, i.e.,<eng> The Gullet of the Strangers’ Corrie. Over its cliffs the whole herd wildly plunged, and, for many years afterwards, their bones mingled with the rocky debris below.

About the beginning of the nineteenth century, under the new conditions that arose, the Crathie community were deprived of the valuable privilege of summering their stock on Drummond. This aroused keen indignation, and called forth the ready voice of song, as in the following lines:

<gai>’S thoir fios gu fear a’ Gharbha bhuainn,
Gu dearbh nach bi sinn réidh;
Bho ’n thug e bhuainn na caoirich,
’S na dh’ fhaod e as an déidh,—

An crodh laoigh a bhiodh ’san langanaich
’S na gleannaibh ’am biodh am feur.<eng>


XXXIV.

Close to Crathie was Kylarachill. <gai>Aonghas Mac Uilleim,<eng> who resided there, composed this song, apparently on the occasion of the crofters being under threat of eviction. These evictions, if intended, were never carried out. Crathie could boast until quite lately, to possess the most characteristic crofting community in all Badenoch.

<gai>A Chraichidh dhubh, chruaidh!
Cha bhi mi fo ghruaim ’ad dhéidh;
Is liuthad là agus uair
A bha mi mu d’ bhruaichean fhéin.


[TD 34]

Cha chuir sinn fiù càl,
’S cha chuir sinn aon bhràghad air each,
Ach ìre bhuntàt’,
’S cha dian e dhuinn tràth mu ’n seach.

Cha thìll reitheachan tòir,
’S cha dian cìobair le ’chleòc bonn stàth;
Cha chum caoraich nan gleann
Na Frangaich thall;—
’S och! ’s mis’ tha ’s an àm-s’ fo phràmh.<eng>


XXXV.

In the year 1838, a large number of people emigrated to Australia from the neighbourhood of Kingussie. The St George, by which they had taken passage to Sydney, lay at Oban, so it was necessary for them to make the long journey to Fort-William in carts, and thence proceed to the place of embarkation by steamboat. Their departure from Kingussie took place at mid-summer, and on the day of St Columba’s Fair—Latha Féill Chaluim Chille. This fair was the occasion of a general gathering of the inhabitants of Badenoch; and to it many resorted from a distance for purposes of trade or mere amusement. Several near relatives of the writer, who were among those present on the memorable day referred to, used to describe with deep emotion the scenes of heart-rending grief which they witnessed.

A band of strolling musicians in connection with some entertainment, readily entered into the situation and temper of their assembled patrons at the


[TD 35]

fair. Playing airs suited to the occasion, and followed by crowds of people, they made their way to the top of the Little Rock, which commands a view of the whole of Badenoch downwards from Glen Truim. From that height, where a few years before, “the young men of Kingussie” had erected a cairn in memory of Duke Alexander, many eyes were turned wistfully to take a last farewell of much-loved haunts and homes. One strain of song touched every heart, and snatches of it were ever associated with recollections of the affecting events of the day:

Let Fortune use me as it may,
I will think on Scotland far away.

After descending from the <gai>Creag Bheag,<eng> the emigrants set out on their westward journey, accompanied as far as the old stage-house of Pitmain by relatives and friends. Here, those who were departing for the New World and those who were remaining behind took leave of each other as persons who would never meet again on this side the grave.

Among those who then bade farewell for ever to the banks of Spey, there was one of whom I should like to make passing notice. This was a young man named John Eason. His parents were natives of Morayshire, and had come to reside at Kingussie, no doubt in consequence of some employment on the Gordon Estates. A stone-mason to trade, he found time to devote to reading and the cultivation of the Muses. Being possessed of much public spirit, he was the recognised leader of the forward youths of the village, and a universal favourite throughout the country. Half a century after he had gone, those of his companions who still survived, liked to speak


[TD 36]

of him often. I understand that he died not long after his settlement in the New World.

The bard, <gai>Domh’ll Phàil, <eng>was another resident in the neighbourhood of Kingussie, who had resolved to seek his fortunes beyond the seas. Circumstances, however, prevented him from carrying out his intention. It was when in prospect of leaving his native land, and when the advantages of emigration were constantly under discussion, that he composed this song, which makes bantering allusion to the various inducements that might be supposed to suggest themselves to his mind.

It may be remarked that the good ship, St George, took no less than five months to make the voyage to Sydney, which must have been a tiresome one, indeed, for the unfortunate passengers.

<gai>Gu ’m a slàn do na fearaibh
Théid thairis a’ chuan,
Gu talamh a’ gheallaidh.
Far nach fairich iad fuachd.
Gu’m a slàn, etc.

Gu’m a slàn do na mnathan
Nach cluinnear an gearan,
’S ann théid iad gu smearail,
’G ar leantuinn thar ’chuan;
Gu’m a slàn, etc.

’Us na nìghneagan bòidheach,
A dh’ fhalbhas leinn còmhladh,
Gheibh daoine ri ’m pòsadh,
A chuireas òr ’nan dà chluais.
Gu’m a slan, etc.


[TD 37]

Gheibh sinn aran ’us ìm ann,
Gheibh sinn siucar ’us tea ann;
’S cha bhi gainne oirnn-fhìn,
’S an tìr ’s am bheil buaidh.
Gu’m a slàn, etc.

’N uair dh’ fhàgas sinn ’n t-àit’ so,
Cha chuir iad mór-mhàl oirnn;
’S cha bhi an Fhéill Màrtainn
’Cur nàire ’n ar gruaidh.
Gu’m a slàn, etc.

Gu’m fàg sinn an tìr so,
Cha chinnich aon nì ann;
Tha ’m buntàt’ air dol ’dhìth ann,
’S cha chinn iad le fuachd.
Gu’m a slàn, etc.

Gheibh sinn crodh agus caoraich;
Gheibh sinn cruithneachd air raointean,
’S cha bhi e cho daor dhuinn,
Ri fraoch an Taoibh-Tuath.
Gu’m a slàn, etc.

’N uair a théid mi do ’n mhunadh,
A mach le mo ghunna,
Cha bhi geamair no duine
’G am chur air an ruaig.
Gu’m a slàn, etc.

Gheibh sinn sìod’ agus sròl ann;
Gheibh sinn pailteas de ’n chlòimh ann,
’S ni na mnathan dhuinn clò dheth,
Air seòl an Taoibh-Tuath.
Gu’m a slàn, etc.


[TD 38]

Cha bhi iad ’g ar dùsgadh,
Le clag Chinne-Ghiùbhsaich; (1)
Cha bhi e gu diùbhras,
Ged nach dùisg sinn cho luath.
Gu’m a slàn, etc.<eng>


XXXVI.

In this verse we have an old and pathetic wail of grief for departed friends:

<gai>Bu leam-sa na daoin’-uasal sin,
Chaidh thar a’ chuan is chaillear iad;
Bha Iain ann, bha Eoghainn ann,
Ach b’ e mo rùn an t-Alasdair.<eng>


XXXVII.

This bright-spirited ditty was composed in the Back-Woods of America, but contains a strain of tender regret for home and days gone by. I took it down in Little Nuide, from my good old friend, Mrs Davidson—<gai>Bean an Deubhasdanaich:

Leig dhiot an cadal, a chuilean mo rùin,
Dean moch-eirigh maidne ’s gur fheairde do chliù,
Is gheibh thu fear fearainn is òigear ùr,—
’S gu ’m b’ fhearr dhuit sud agad na cadal an cùil.<eng>


(1) Though the present bell of Kingussie Church, which has sounded out loud and strong over the valley, summoning successive generations to the worship of God, is perhaps better than many country parishes can boast, it is not nearly equal to one which was anciently intended to occupy its place. The unfortunate bell I allude to was cast on the Continent, but the ship in which it was conveyed safely across the German Ocean, went down in the River Tay at Perth. Hence the traditionary rhyme:—<gai>“Tha clag mór Chinne-Ghiubhsaich ’n a cruban ’am Peairt,”<eng> i.e., “The great bell of Kingussie is crouching in Perth.”


[TD 39]

<gai>An Luinneag.

O, ’s e an cadal a mheall mi riamh,
Aig truimead mo chridhe ’s e tighinn cho dian,
’S ged gheibhinns’ fear-fearainn a mharbhadh am fiadh,
Gum b’ fhearr leam an cadal na na chunna’ mi riamh.

Leig dhiot an cadal ’s tu ’d phàisdean òg,
Faiceam do bhreacan, do phlaid, is do chlò,
Air feill is air faidhir, ri aighear ’s ri ceòl,
’S gu ’m b’ fhearr dhuit sud agad na cadal am fròig.
O, ’s e an cadal, etc.

Ged gheibhinns’ an t-òigear is boidhch’ tha ’s an tìr,
Is grinne a sheasas an clachan no ’n cìll,
Aig ro-mheud a chuideim cha taoghal mo chion,
Cha d’ thugainn mo chadalan seachad do ’chionn.

Ach ’s ann an America tha sinn an dràsd’,
An iomall na coille nach teirig gu bràch;
’N uair dh’ fhalbhas an dùlachd ’s a thionndaidh ’s am blàs,
Bidh cnothan is ùbhlan gu h-ùrail a fàs.

Ach ’s truagh nach mise bha ’n Geusdò nam bò.
Far an d’ fhuair mi ’m àrach ’n am phàisdean gle òg,
Far am faicte na buachaillean ’cuallach mu ’n chrò,—
Na nìonagan guanach, ’s an gruaidhean mar ròs.


[TD 40]

<eng>SECTION SECOND.

SONGS OF LOVE.

THIS division of the poetry of Badenoch will be found to include specimens of the leading types of song, in sun and shadow, common to the erotic muse. Some stanzas displaying an intensity of passion are cast in the dramatic form. Some speak in language of strong and calm affection, expressing the well-considered sentiments of men earnest and sedate. Others are the unpremeditated outflow in melody of young hearts, each filled with fond attachment for the beloved one. There are not a few pieces which the initiated reader will at once recognise as possessed of that indescribable natural charm characteristic of the finest Gaelic poetry. This wild lyric vein comes out strongly in what may be called the tragedies of love, some of which will find a place in our section devoted to elegiac poetry. While certain light lays of make-believe love, composed in fun to relieve the passing hour, will be grouped along with Songs of Humour, there are a few love-notes which will fittingly be classed with Songs of War.

The indigenous Love Songs of Badenoch were usually in the ballad form, containing something in the nature of a narrative. As such, they are infinitely more interesting than those compositions that seem like inventories enumerating the points of female


[TD 41]

beauty, according to the approved ideal. For lays of this class, the singers of Badenoch availed themselves, to a great extent, of those familiar ones, which, whatever their origin, may now be regarded as the common property of Highlanders everywhere, having floated hither and thither over land and sea on the music of their own sweet airs.


XXXVIII.

On a height at the North-East end of Loch Laggan, and overlooking the little bay of <gai>Camus Cillein<eng>, (1) the ruins of St Kenneth’s Church (2) still remain as a memorial of remote antiquity. Around reposes the dust of countless generations of the inhabitants of Brae-Badenoch. It is to be remembered that the area enclosed some time ago, formed but a small portion of this ancient Burying-Ground,—in fact not much more than the immediate precincts of the sacred edifice. Associated with those crumbling walls, there is a pathetic legend of love strong unto death. Passing along the public road beneath, how often have I heard it told, and listened to the old-world song of breaking hearts, sung softly to the accompaniment of the lapping waves of Loch Laggan.

A son of Macdonald of Dalness and a daughter of the tacksman of Tirindrish, had formed a mutual attachment. The relatives of the hapless maiden, however, not only refused to give her hand to the youth to whom she had betrothed herself, but, by


(1) The Bay of the Little Cell.

(2) This was one of seven Churches built by a member of Lochiel’s family, called <gai>Alan nan Creach,<eng> as an expiation for his sins. He had been a notorious reiver. But there had been a place of worship on this spot long before the time of Allan of the Forays,—ever since the holy man, with whom the locality is associated, had resided here.


[TD 42]

fraud, brought about her marriage with another. On being apprised of this, young Dalness became ill, took to bed, and died after singing those plaintive verses in which he sends a farewell message to his true-love. In due course his funeral took place, and he was laid to rest amid kindred ashes, close to St Kenneth’s Church. (1)

<gai>Tha mise so ’m’ laidhe
’N leabaidh chuthain, chaoil, chlàraidh;
Mo cheann iar a lionadh
Le fiabhrus mi-nàdarr’;
Cha ’n fhuachd ’us cha teas e,
’S cha ’n fhios ciod a’s cràdh dhomh;
’S ann tha toiseach mo ghalair
Mu m’ sgamhan, ’s mu m’ àirnean.

Beir mo shorruidh-sa thairis
Gu m’ leannan, do ’n Bhràighe,
’S ’nu’r chluinneas i ’n aithris,
Cha mhath leath’ mar thà mi;
Mi gun sùgradh, gun aiteas,
’S gur h-è chleachd mi bhi ’g àbhachd;
’S e cumha do phòige
A leòn chun a bhàis mi!

Ge bu shocair mo leaba,
Cha d’ chaidil mi ’n raoir,
’S nach d’ fhuaras thu agam
An taice ri m’ thaobh;
’N àm dùsgadh ’s a mhaduinn
Gum b’ fhad thu o m’ ghlaodh!
’S mór b’ fheairrde mi agam
Aon aiteal de m’ ghaol!<eng>


(1) The Chapel and Yard of Cille Choiril in Brae-Lochaber would appear to belong to comparatively recent times, from the fact that leading Lochaber families had their places of sepulture at Kinloch-Laggan, and even at Kingussie.


[TD 43]

<gai>Cha ’n e ro mhiad do niche
Tha mise ag iarguinn,
Ach bhi ’m’ laidhe so ’m’ aonar
Ri smaointeanan diamhain;—
Gheibhinn bean anns an tìrs’
’G a bheil nì, de shìol Diarmaid;—
Ach o n’ thug mi de ghràdh dhuit,
Gu ’m bi dàil aic’ am bliadhna.

Tha mise fo sprochd, ’ghaoil,
O thoiseach mo cheist ort;
’S their gach aon neach de m’ sheòrsa
Nach gòraiche bheag sin:—
Mur gabh laigse na feòla
’S an òige mo lethsgeul;—
Gu ’n tig oirnn’ gun iarraidh
Gaol, Iadach, is Eagal.

Gur mis’ th’ iar mo leòn
Mu bhean òg a chuil duinn!
’S tu dhianadh mi slàn
Ged thà mi gu tinn!
Tha do ghruaidh mar an caorunn,
Slios mar fhaoileann an tuinn;
’S e bhi sealltuinn a’ d’ aodunn
A b’ aobhaiche leam.

S truagh nach robh mi ’s mo leannan
Anns a ghleannan, an uaigneas,
No ’s a’ bhadan bheag choille
’S an goireadh na cuachan;—
Thu sinnt’ ann am bhreacan
Dlù-phaisgt’ ann am shuainich!
Gum faighinn le deòin, ’ghaoil!
Do phòg is cha b’ fhuathaich.


[TD 44]

Gur diùmach mi d’ athair,
Dhe luchd tighe, ’s de chairdean,
Le ’n litrichean bréige,
Mar thréig iad do ghradh orm:—
Bha ’n dream dhe ’n robh sinne
Làn toil agus ardain:
’S e ar cumail o chéile
Dh’ fhàg fo éislein gu bràch mi!<eng>

No sooner were the above verses sung in the hearing of his betrothed, than she took up the heavy burden of its tune, and replied as follows:

<gai>Ged do chaidh mo phòsadh,
Cha bu deònach mi féin air,
’N uair sheall mi am dheodhaidh,
’S e mo roghainn a threig mi.
Oig ùir a chùil ghasta!
Bu tu mo thaitneachdain céile;
’S truagh, a ghaoil, gun mi mar riut
Fo sparradh na déile.

Ged thig fear mo thighe-sa dhachaidh,
Cha dean mi ris fàilte;
Cha dean mi ris cridhealas,
Bruidhinn no gàire;
Tha e nochd ’s a cheann ìseal,
’M fear nach dìbreadh air m’ fhàillinn,—
Dh’ fhàg sud mise fo éislein
Fad mo ré ’us mo làithean!

Tha mo chion air an fhleasgach
Dhonn leadanach bhòidheach,
De ’n fhine nach strìochdadh,
De dh’ fhìon-fhuil Chlann-Dònuill:


[TD 45]

’S ann a ghabh mi mo chead diot
Aig an eaglals Di-dòmhnuich,
’S ged nach d’ fhaod mi bhi cainnt riut,
Bha shannt na bu leòr orm.

Gur truagh nach robh mise,
Gun fhios, air do chùlthaobh
’N àm togail na lice,
Agus bristeadh na h-ùrach;
Cha ’n iarrainn de chiste
Ach mo shlios a bhi dlù riut:
Sgeul a sgath as mo chéudfaith,—
’S ann do ’n Eug thug thu cunntas!<eng>

Having sung this swan song of true love with her latest breath, within a few days more, she too was buried in St Kenneth’s,—her grave being made on the opposite side of the church, from that in which lay her lover, now silent in death. By and by a strange thing happened, the like of which, however, is not unknown in ballad literature. Out of the grave of each of these star-crossed lovers, sprang a tree, whose high over-arching boughs, in the course of years were inter-locked in loving embrace above the church. So they long continued, until, to the scandal of the country, a sordid churl cut them down for the sake of the timber, which he coveted. It is hardly necessary to add that the miserable man never prospered afterwards. Anon, it became noised abroad that the mystic trees were springing up again, and, in my own recollection, people cherished the romanic expectation that the touching symbol of true love would be restored.


[TD 46]

XXXIX.

<gai>“Bràigh Uisge Spé!”<eng> i.e., “Above Spey Water!” We may well suppose that this artless lyric, usually so named, would be much in favour at the sheilings around the dim moorlands of Glenshiaro. A pastoral monody truly it was, when first crooned by the leal-hearted maid who composed it as she took her lonely way, and thus gave expression to “the waes o’ her heart.”

<gai>’S mór mo mhulad, ’s cha ’n aichea ’m,
Mu ’n sgeul ùr-s’ tha mi ’clàistinn,
’S mi ’tearnadh ’s tigh bràigh uisge Spé.
’S mòr mo mhulad, etc.

Bhuail tacaid ’san taobh mi,
Lìon earrainn do d’ ghaol mi,
Thug sud orm bhi ’caochladh mo neoil.

An raoir a bhruadair mi ’m chadal,
Thu bhi eadar mo ghlacaidh,
Lùb ùr a chùil bhachlaich, dhuinn, réidh.

Thug sud togail ’san uair orm,
Bhi ’g ad fhaicinn ’am bruadar,
Ged do chuir e orm smuairean ’na dhéigh.

Thug sud mosgladh air m’ inntinn.
Gar an d’ fhaod mi chàch ìnnseadh,
Gus an d’ fhàg e mi dhìobhail mo chéill.

Lùb ùr a chùil chleachdaich,
Fear ’aogais cha ’n fhaic mi,
Ged ruigeadh mi Clachan nan ceud.

Tha do ghruaidh mar na sùbhan,
Mar ròs ’an gàradh nan ubhal,
’S e do ghaol tha ’g am ruighinn gu geur.


[TD 47]

Ged bhiodh agam na buailtean,
Chrodh druim-’ionn a’s guaill-’ionn,
Gu’n d’ thugainn duit suas iad ’s mi-féin.

Ged bhiodh agam gu m’ roghainn,
Fir ùra an Domhain,
Rùn ’s a ghaoil, gur tu thaghainn domh-féin.

Dheanainn sùgradh ’san fhraoch leat,
Cheart a dh’ aindeoin nan daoine,—
Corp a’s gil’ thu na faoileann nan speur.

Cha b’ e eagal an ùbhla,
Ged dhiolainn e dùbailt,
Thug (dhomh) do chumail air cùl ach deadh-bheus,—

Mi bhi fada o m’ chàirdibh,
Agus teisteil mu m’ nàire,—
Eagal sgainneil aon àit’ thà fo’n ghréin.

’S ged nach d’ rinn mi leat lùbadh,
’S e mo roghainn ’s mo rùn e,—
Deadh chéile-maith cliùiteach dhuit-féin!

Ged nach d’ fhaod mi bhi làimh riut,
Bi’dh mi ’g òl do dheoch-slàinte,
As gach sruthan a thàrlas orm-féin.

Deir gach té rium gu h-uallach,
’N uair ’gheibh i céile r’a gualainn,—
“Tog thusa fear fuadain dhuit féin.”

Nam biodh tus’ mar tha mise,
Do chridhe brùite trom briste,
Cha d’ thugadh tu idir dhomh beum.

Faighear cisd a chinn chaoil domh,
Agus anart mu’n chré so,
’S taisgear mi ’an tigh caol fuar an éig.

Bha mi làthair an latha
’N d’ eug mo mhàthair a’s m’ athair,
Cha ’n e sud rinn mo sgathadh cho geur.


[TD 48]

Ged dh’ fhalbhadh mo bhràithrean,
’Chuid eile de m’ chàirdean,
Dheanainn sùgradh ri m’ Ghràdh as an déigh.<eng>


XL.

This is one of several songs belonging to the same class of poetry, which I discovered some years ago in the Cluny charter chest. They appear to have been taken down about the end of the eighteenth century. The writing was difficult to decipher, and a few of the words were so obscure that they well-nigh defied every effort to identify them. The author of the following sensible composition would, no doubt, have made a good husband, had the fates been favourable to his suit. In the MS., it is introduced as <gai>“Oran a chaidh ’dheanamh do mhnaoi-uasail àraid, air fonn òran Iain Bhàin Gutraidh,”<eng> i.e., “A song composed to a certain gentle-woman, to the air of Fair-haired John Guthrie.”

<gai>’S mór mo mhulad ’s mo smuairean,
O’n a dhealaich mo rùn rium Dì-luain,
Geug ’na dearbh-chuilionn ruinneach
A chuireadh m’ airteal air ionndraichinn bhuam;
Deud mar chailc is math dùnadh,
’S cùbhraidh’ d’ anail na ùbhlan ga ’m buain;
B’ anns’ leam d’ fhaotainn gun chuinnlein,
Na ’bhi m’ oighr’ air a’ chruinne ’s tu bhuam.

Bhuam cha bhitheadh an éuchdag.
Air na chunna mi dh’ fhéudail ’s do shluagh,
Beul thu ’s binne ri éisdeachd
Na ceòl ‘spinet’ a’s teud-fhoclaich’ fuaim;


[TD 49]

Gnùis a’s gil’ thu fo d’ éididh,
Na caoir gheal ’s i ’g éiridh ’s a’ chuan,
’S gann ri ’n sireadh bean d’ aogais,
Anns gach fine is léur dhomh mu ’n cuairt.

Sgeul a th’ agam ri innseadh,
Gu ’m beil seachduin a thìm anns gach uair,
Gus an aisig Deadh Nì thu
Chum do theacha le fìrinn a’s stuaim:
Ged ghlasd’ mi ’am prìosan,
Gun tigh’nn as gus an tìll thu ri luath’s,
Cha bhiodh m’ airtneal ’s mo thìomachd,
Ach mar thachair bho ’n dh’ imich thu bhuam.

’S mis’ an duine gun léursainn,
Nach do bheachdaich do bheusan ’s an tràth
A chaidh seachad le chéil’ oirnn,—
’N tràth ’bha dreach nan ùr-gheug air ar blàth;
Ach ’s e thachair cha léir duinn
Nì, na feartan tha ’g éirigh do ghnàth,
Gus an sgapar bho chéil’ sinn,
’S gu faicear leinn dealbhadh na bh’ ann.

Ach na dh’ fhalbh ’s na chaidh seachad,
Cha ’n ’eil feum ’bhi ga ’acain le gruaim,
’S feàrr an t-aon eun a ghlacadh,
Na na mìltean th’ air seacharan uainn;
An là tìmeil a th’ againn,
Ni sinn dìchioll a chleachdadh le stuaim,
’S dar thig tìm dhuinn dol dachaidh,
Bi’dh sinn cinnte’ gu faigh sinn ar duais.

’S bi’dh ar duais mar ar currachd,
Ma ’s e cluaran no cruithneachd am pòr,
Teanntar sguaban gach duine
Chum an teampuill, a chuir an so ’chòir:


[TD 50]

’S an tì ’ghluais le cruaidh-mhuineal,
Théid a bhualadh le iomadach còrd,
’S tha a’ bhinn uamhasach ullamh,—
“Imich uam-sa gu h-ionad a’ bhròin.”<eng>


XLI.

Here is another old-fashioned love-song from the Cluny charter chest, very much in the style of the preceding. I do not remember to have seen either in print; and there is no clue to their authorship given. The one now before us, is styled, <gai>“Oran a rinn fleasgach òg d’ a leannan”<eng>—“A song by a young swain to his sweetheart.”

<gai>Ach Iseabail donn, nighean Dòmhnuill sin,
Bu deònach leinn na’n géilleadh tu,
Bean nam meall-shùl’ mòdharach,
Bu nàbuidh leinn mar chéile thu.
Do mhuineal cearc’llach bòidheach ort,
Mu ’n iadh an t-òmar léursainneach,
’S gu ’m b’ fheàrr leam féin ri ’phòsadh thu,
Na òighreachd Sheòrs’ a’s déidh oirre.

’S, O! ’s maith thig gùn a’s buile-còt’
Do ’n ainnir mhaiseach ùrailteach,
A’s staidhis bhreac de ’n chalico
Mu d’ bhroilleach geal fo ùrallas.
Tha liuthad buaidh an òircheaird ort,
’S bu roghadh seòid na siùbhlachain,
Do chùl mar theudaibh ceòlmhor,
’S mo chridhe trom ’g a ghiùlan sud.

’N àm dhùsgadh nan teud ceòlmhor sin,
Mu ’n òigh bu bhòidhche siùbhlachain,
Le do bhròig dhìonaich phòranaich,
Mu ’n troigh nach leòint’ an drùchd leatha:

[TD 51]

Gur truagh nach mi th’ air m’ òrduchadh
’S an fhòid an taobh-sa Mhùideart leat,
Mo chridhe ta air seargadh as,
Mar chraoibh fo stoirm ri dùbh-ghaillionn.

Mo chridhe truagh air leònadh leat;
A rùin, am beò, no ’n dùisgear thu?
Thusa ’bhi ’n ad ònar,
A thigh’nn òirnn le sòlas urallais:
’S i bean a’s grinne mala i,
’S gu ’n còrdainn fhéin gu dlùthar riut,
’S cha ’n iarrainn leat do stòras,
Ach an nì ’bu deòin le d’ mhuinntir e.

Ach marbhphaisg air an stòras sin,—
Tha sluagh an t-seòrsa déidheil air;
Ach sinne ’n so tha sòmhail dheth,
Na Dòmhnullaich cha léur dhoibh sinn:
Ach Iseabail ’bhi ga diùltadh dhomh,
Mar chrann ’s a’ chléith cha ’n fhiù leò mi,
’S gu ’n d’ fhàg sud m’ acain dùbailte,
Ma ’s nì ’chuir cùl gu léir rium i.

Ach marbhphaisg air an earras,
’S tric a dh’ fhàg e m’ aire leòinte dheth,
Ged robh ciall ’an ceangal ris,
Cha dean iad dheth ach neò-dhuine;
Ged robh géire ’s tuigse aig’,
Cha ’n fhiù e ’labhairt còmhradh air,
Ach ma bhios faob de ’n t-saoghal aige,
Faobh! faobh! ’s leòbach e.

’S cha ’n ’eil sinn ach glé phàisdeachail,
Tha dearbh-fhios agam féin air sud,
Nach deach n-ar stòr an àirdead òirnn,
’S gur leanabaidh leò le chéile sinn;


[TD 52]

Na ’n gleidheadh sibh trì bliadhna i,
Bu neo-iarguineach m’a déidhinn mi,
’S gu ’n saoilinn féin gu ’m b’ fhiach mi i,
A’s cupall cheud a dh’ fheudail leath’.

’S a nighean thoir an aire,
Gu ’n deach aithris feadh na dùthcha òirnn,
’S o’n ’s nì nach fheud mi ’cheiltinn e,
Gu ’n leig mi ’mach gu sunndach e;
Mar each ga m’ thilg’ air àilean,
Ma thèarnas mi gun chiùrradh dheth,
Cha dian iad ach adhbhar-ghàire dheth,
Mar fhear dh’ an gnàth ’bhi ùmadail.

’S, O! sguiridh mi, ’s cha lean mi e,
Cha nàir dhomh bean ’thoirt diùltadh dhomh,
Ged rach’ a’ choill’ an tainead òirnn,
Tha mìle slat fo ùralas;
Ma dh’ fhaoidte gu ’m beil ainnir ann
Cho banail ’s ’tha ’s an dùthaich-sa,
A bheireadh gaol a’s stòras dhomh,
Ge gòrach mi ’n ur sùilibh-se.

’S a Mhaighistir chòir ghaolaich sin,
Dh’an robh mi daonnan dùrachdach,
Tha m’ fhuil a’s m’ fheòil an càirdeas riut,
Mar leannan mnà gu dùbailte:
’S ma chluinn thu neach ’toirt tàire dhomh,
Leig fios do chàch gur fiù leat mi,
’S gur leam an seasamh facail thu,
Ma thig e grad as ùr òirnne.

’S tha mo dhùil ’an Rìgh na glòrach,
Gu ’m beil Es’ a’ gabhail cùraim as,
’S nach ’eil e ann ar còireachan,
Na threòraicheas ar cùiseannan;


[TD 53]

’S na ’m faighinn céile òrduichte,
Gu ’n tugainn pòrsan dùbailt’ dh’i,
’S ged bheireadh sibhse Iseabail domh,
Cha bhrisd e bonn de chuibhrionn oirr’.<eng>


XLII.

A young woman at the sheilings in Gaick, was one day visited by her lover, to whom she had been betrothed, before leaving the Strath. But now, alas! having prospects of another, and better-tochered, maid, he came to “break the engagement.” Nevertheless, when he fairly reached the bothie, he felt rather ashamed of his purpose, and remarked, in a sheepish way, that he had merely looked in as he was searching for horses in the vicinity. Having had private information as to his conduct, she at once divined what had been the real object of his visit, and no sooner had that faithless swain turned from the door, than he was arrested by a sad, familiar voice singing as follows:

<gai>Sgeul a chualas bho ’n dé,
Mu shealgair an fhéidh,—
Clach eadar mi-féin ’s mo bhròg.

Ghabh thu leisgeul ’san uair,
Gur h-è eich a bha bhuat,
Cas a shiùbhladh nam fuaran gorm.

Cas a dhìreadh nan stùc,
’S a thearnadh nan lùb;
’Dheanadh fiadhach ri drùchd gun cheò.

Bu tu mo cheannaich’ air féill,
Mo chrios is mo bhréid,
Is sgian bheaga na réidh-chois òir.


[TD 54]

Bu tu mo chompanach rùin,
Nach fhàgadh mi ’n cùil,
’Nuair bhiodh càch ann an cùirt an òil.

’S bho nach ’eil agam spréidh,
Dé mu ’n cuirinn ort déigh?
Ach mo bheannachd ad dhéigh, ’s bi falbh!<eng>

As he listened his heart relented, and all his old love returned, so that, her song being ended, he replied:

<gai>Ach ged tha aic’-se spréidh,
Dé mu ’n cuirinn oirr’ déigh?
Fhad ’sa mhaireas tu féin rium beò.<eng>


XLIII.

A certain bridegroom, accompanied by the customary train of young men and maidens, was gaily journeying to the home of the bride. Beside a knoll near the road, a sorrowful damsel sat and sang. The bridegroom recognises the form and the voice of her whom he had jilted for one more richly endowed with worldly goods. He is so fascinated that he cannot proceed a step farther. He desires his companions to proceed to a neighbouring inn, where he promises shortly to rejoin them. Then he listens until that melting strain, which held him spell-bound, came to an end; whereupon, in manner fitting, he takes up the refrain, protesting that neither wealth nor plenishing would evermore seduce his heart from “the meek and modest maid of excellent parentage,” who had first gained his affections: and the marriage party waited long, but in vain. Such is the legend in connection with one of the most


[TD 55]

exquisite pastoral lyrics in the language. The sweet images of pastoral life, combined with equally enchanting glimpses of natural scenery, so skilfully introduced by the songstress, were indeed well calculated to stir deep emotions in the heart of her Celtic lover. The whole piece might form an interlude in the Forest of Arden.

<gai>Ni mi suidh’ agus crùban,
’S cha ’n ’eil sùgradh air m’ aire;

Ann am bun an tuim riabhaich,
Far ’na liath mi ’s mi ’m chaileig.

’S mi ’nam chaileig bhochd, ghòraich,—
Bu mhór mo dhòigh ri na fearaibh.

Ceisd nam ban! thug iad bhuam thu,
A gleannan uaigneach a’ bharraich;

Gleannan cuthagach, cuachach,
’S an cinn an luachair ’s an canach.

Gheibhte crodh ann air bhuailtibh,
Agus gruagaichean glana,

’Toirt na laoigh bhuap’ air éiginn,
’S iad ’g an séideadh le ’n anail.

Gheibht’ ann cnothan a’s caorrunn,
’S iad, a ghaoil! air bhlas meala,—

Cnothan cruinn air a’ challtuinn,
’S thus’, a’ ghraidh! ’s mi ’g an tional.

Mile marbhphaisg air mo chairdean,
’S beag a b’ fheàird’ mi dhe ’n gleidheadh.

Bho nach d’ thug iad dhomh stòras,
Air son do bhòidhchead a cheannach.

’S ann a thog iad mór-sgeul oirnn,
Gu ’n robh mi-féin is tu falamh,—


[TD 56]

Nach robh airgead ’nar pòca,
Na cheannaicheadh stòp ’s an tigh-leanna.

Ge b’ e dh’ aithris an sgeul ud,
Righ féin! bu mhòr am mearachd.

Tha tri fichead bó ghuaillfhionn,
Air do bhuaile, ’s gum b’ airidh!

’S uiread eile chrodh ciar-dhubh,
Tighinn nuas a Bun Reanach.

Gheibhte sud leat air àilean,
’S greigh do làraichean-searraich;

Tri fichead do ghobhair,
’S làn fonn chaorach geala.

’S ged a thu’irt iad Iain Claon riut,
’Ghaoil, b’ aoidheil do shealladh.

Bha do shlios mar an fhaoilinn,
’S do dhà thaobh mar an eala.

Bha do phòg mar na h-ùbhlan,
’S d’ anail chùbhraidh mar chanal.

Gur ann oidhche do bhàinnse,
Dh’ fhàs thu ceannsgalach, fearail,

Le do fhleasgaichibh òga,
’G òl air bòrd ’s an tigh-leanna,—

Le do mhaighdeanaibh rìomhach,
Làn sìod agus anairt.

Ach mur fhaigh mi dhiot tuille,
Dean mo chuireadh gu d’ bhanais,—

Gu banais an òig-fhir,
Dha ’n robh mo dhòigh bho chionn tamuill;

Ged nach deanainn ach gàire,
Chumail càch as am barail.

[TD 57]

’S ceannaich dhomh-sa paidhir làmhainnean,
’S na bi gann rium mu ’n anart;

Agus ciste dhe ’n uinnseann,
Théid ’g am chuibhrig fo ’n talamh.—

’S ge b’ e taobh do ’n téid thu,
A Righ féin! gur tu mhealas.

ESAN.

Ach na mealadh mi-féin iad,
Mu théid mi ’gan gabhail.

’S cha dean mi do thréigsinn,
Airson féudail no earrais.

Bean gun lasadh, gun àrdan,
’S a càirdean bhi ro-mhath.<eng>


XLIV.

This doleful ditty was sung by a maiden all forlorn. She had been cruelly deserted by her lover, who, by the way, knew no Gaelic, and yet married a fair one with scarcely a word of English. These verses afford a good specimen of the colloquial Gaelic of Badenoch. The poor poetess died shortly after singing her song of grief. The object of her affection was a gardener from the Low Country, who was commonly called Seors’ Mór.

<gai>O! gur mise tha air glasadh,
Is air snaidheadh fo m’ fheòil,
Mu ’n òganach chùil duinn,
Dha ’m beil rùn nam ban òg.


[TD 58]

An diugh chaidh thu chum na féille,
’S càch gu léir gu’n deach iad ann;
’S dh’ fhàg thu mise aig a’ bhaile,
Mur nach biodh m’ fhear-farraid ann.

Ach bha na gillean eil’ rium caoimhneil,
Agus rinn iad ’fharraid rium,
“Am beil thu dol chum na féille,”
No, “’N diugh fhéin gu dé (1) do shunnd.”

’Dearbh cha’n ’eil mi dol chum na fèille,
Och! cha téid, gu dé ni mi ann;
’S ann tha m’ fhéill-sa is mo chlachan,
Air an leabaidh so ’thàmh.

Ged is tric tha mi air mo leabaidh,
Cha ’n e bho ro-ghoirteas mo chinn,
Ach ’mheud ’s a thug mi gaol dha ’n òigear,
Nach d’ thug dhomh-sa gaol ’ga chionn.

O! gur gòrach mi thug gaol duit,
An rud a dh’ fhaodainn bhi dhe dhìth,
Ach thu bhi ro-bhòidheach ’s mi bhi ro-ghòrach,
’S cha robh do chòmhradh ’n sin orm a dhìth.

O! gu ’n chuir thu mi bho obair,
A ghaoil, gu ’n chuir thu mi bho ’n ghnìomh,
O! gu ’n chuir thu mi bho ’n chadal,
’S chuir thu baileach mi bho ’n bhiadh.

O! gur mise chaill bhi cridheil,
O! gur mise chaill a’ phròis,
’S ann a ghoid thu bhuam mo chridhe,
Is cha’n urra ’mi inns’ mo dhòigh.

’N uair a thigea’ tu ’stigh ’na chitsin,
Bhiodh tu cridheil am measg chàch,
Rium cha deana’ tu guth no còmhradh,
Ged bheireadh e beò mi bho na bhàs.


(1) Ciod è.


[TD 59]

’N uair a thigea’ tu seach an uinneag,
Bhiodh mo chridh’-sa air a leòn,
’N uair a chithinn do chùl donn dualach,
’S ann is truagh gu ’m beil mi beò.

Tha Ian ’ga mo iarraidh,
Bho cheann bliadhna no dhà,
Ach mur fhaigh mi-fhìn Seòrus,
O! cha phòs mi fear eil’ gu bràch.

’S ann Di-Dòmhnuich dol ’na chlachan,
Ghabh mi beachd air gach fear bha ann,
Fear a bhòidhchead cha’n fhaicinn,
Ged is ioma gill’ òg a bh’ ann.

O! cha’n fhaic mi is cha léir dhomh,
Fo na ghréin ghil ach thu,
’S ged bu leam na tri rìoghachdan,
Bheirinn saor iad na ’m faighinn thu.

’S ann a thòisich càch ri ràdh,
Gur è do ghràdh a thug dhomh laidh’ sìos,—
Do phòg le fàilte cha dean bonn-stà dhomh,
Ach mar ni ’n t-slàinte dha ’n duine thinn.

Ach is coma leam dhà sin,
Gu dé their càch air mo chùl;
Ach mur fhaigh mi-fhìn thu, ’Sheorais!
Ni mi bròn gu dhol chum na h-ùir.<eng>


XLV.

The story of the persons connected with the preceding ballad was well known to residenters in Kingussie; but who can tell what were the circumstances that occasioned this charming refrain? It has the true lyric ring:


[TD 60]

<gai>Seall a mach am faic thu tighinn,
Rùn mo chridh’, am baran donn;
Seall a mach am faic thu tighinn,
Rùn mo chridh’, am baran donn.

Rùn mo chridhe, gradh mo chridhe,
Rùn mo chridh’, am baran donn;
’S coma leam co thig no thàinig,
Bho nach tig am baran donn.<eng>


XLVI.

Although these verses are the production of one who professes that he was no votary of the muse, they are, nevertheless, throughout in faultless form, and display an admirable literary taste.

<gai>Beir an t-soraidh so bhuam,
Dh’ fhios na caileig air chuairt,
Dha ’n d’ thug mi mo luaidh ro mhòr.

Tha i mòr ann an ceill,
Tha i pailt ann am beus,
Tha i cuimir bho ’beul gu ’bròig.

Tha i caoimhneal ’s i ciùin,
’S glan sealladh a sùl,
Gu ’n d’ fhuair i dhe ’m rùn ’n a leòr.

Tha do bhraghad gheal féin
Mar am blàth air a’ ghéig;
Bhuait b’ fhearr na bho Venus pòg.

Ann an àbhachd ’s an céill,
Cha ’n eil d’ àicheadh fo ’n ghréin,
’S tu b’ fhearr leam dhomh-fhéin tha beò.

[TD 61]

Cùl clannach nan dual,
’S e càradh mu ’n cuairt,
’S tu is glaine th’ air uachdar feòir.

’S gur cùbhraidh ’s gur geur,
Cruinn, dlù-gheal do dheud,—
Mar an siucar pronn réidh, do phòg.

Mar a’ mhil ann mo bheul,
Tha mo bhioradh ’na déigh,
’S gum beil mire am chré na tòir.

Dh’ fhag do shùgradh ’s do mhiann,
Téine dùsg ann mo chlì,
Nach caisg dùlachd air mheud an reòt’.

S bho nach urradh mi ann,
S tuille ’s tìm dhomh bhi ’m thàmh,
Bha mi mì-mhodhail ’theann ri ceòl.

’S tha buaidh eile do dhéigh,
Nach d’ innis mi-féin,
Gur diomain an t-éideadh ’n fheòil.<eng>


XLVII.

This <gai>luinneag<eng> may be regarded as a sort of counterpart to that given immediately above. I took down both from the singing of the same aged lady. The use of an occasional English word in Gaelic poetical compositions of the eighteenth century, was not only tolerated, but often considered to be a mark of superior genius.

<gai>’S beag a thuigeas tu ’ghaoil,
Gum bi mo chadal cho faoin,
’Nuair a chluinneas mi ’ghaoth ag éirigh.

[TD 62]

’Nuair a chì mi ’mhuir mhòr,
’S i bhi taomadh gu <eng>shore,<gai>
Bidh mi sileadh nan deòir gu deurach.

Fhir is cuimire feòil,
’S math thig <eng>dress<gai> air a dhòrn,
’S truagh nach mis ’bha air stòl ’gad réiteach’.

Gur guirme do shùil,
Na ’n guirmean e bùth:—
Far an caidil thu, rùin! gu ’n éirich.

Gur deirge do ghruaidh,
Na ’n t-suidheag ’sa ’bhruaich,
’S tha mi umad air bhuaireadh céille.

Ach bho’n tha mi gun stoc,
Gur e nì mi bhi ’m thosd,
Ged a chluinninn an nochd do réiteach’.

Gur e nì mi bhi ’m thàmh,
Bho’n ’se buidhinn is feàrr,
Ged a bhithinn gu bràch fo euslan.

Tha m’ athair air chall,
’S cha ’n eil mo mhathair ach fann,
Gun mo chrodh air a’ ghleann ag geumnaich;—

Gun mo chaoraich air chrò,
Na mo ghearrain air lòn,
Na mo chairdean an còir a chéile.<eng>


XLVIII.

William Gow, better known under the territorial designation of <gai>Uilleam Ruighe ’n Uidhe<eng> (1) composed the following verses when in prospect of losing his sweetheart. Thirty years ago, this was one of the


(1) The Sheiling of the Pass, or Way.


[TD 63]

most popular every-day songs among the farm-servants of Badenoch:

<gai>Thug mi greis ann an armailt Dheòrsa,
A mach air m’ eolas, am measg nan Dù-Ghall;
Bheir mi nis greis eil’ air gòraich’,
Air siubhal mòintich is dìreadh stùc-bheann.

Och mar tha mi ’s mi ’siubhal fàsaich,
Is damh na cràice air cur a chùl rium;
Nach bochd mo charamh, ’s mi ’n nochd gun fhardaich,
’S ged théid mi ’n àiridh, cha ’n eil mo rùn ann.

’S moch an diugh a rinn mi éirigh,
Ach ’s moiche dh’ fheumainn mur bithinn ciùrrta;
’S e mac na h’ éilde, le ’langan éibhinn,
Ag iarraidh céile, a rinn mo dhùsgadh.

Tha mo chaileag ’dol a phòsadh
Fear gun eòlas, le mòran cùinnidh;
’S e dh’ fhàg mi deurach i bhi ’g a h-éigheach,
Le lagh na cléire, ’n a céile ùmaidh.

Nach cuimir, bòidheach a’ chruinneag chonaird
’S i ’dol an òrdugh gu stòl a’ phusaidh!
’S i toil a càirdean a rinn i ’n dràsta;—
Na ’n robh mi laimh rith’ cha d’ rinn i ’n cumhnant!

Ach ’s truagh nach robh mi ’s mo leannan dualach,
’S a’ bhadan uaine ’s an goir an smùdan;
’S an doire luachrach ’s am biodh an ruadh-bhoc,
’S am fraoch mu ’n cuairt duinn ’n a dhualaibh dù-ghorm.<eng>


XLIX.

<gai>Uilleam Ruighe ’n Uidhe<eng> was the author of the following dramatic ballad. I do not know whether


[TD 64]

it celebrates the same inamorata as the above, but it is in equally “good set terms.”

<gai>Mo Bheitidh dhonn bhoidheach! ’s tu ’s boidhche ’s an tìr,
Anns a’ chlachan, Dì-domhnuich, d’ fhalt an òrdugh an cìr,
’N uair shuidheas tu ’m choinneamh, ’s ’n àm cromadh do chinn,
Cha bhi cuimhn’ air a’ phairsean, le do rosg-shuilean mìn.

Bhean-an-taigh’! na biodh sprochd ort, thoir am botul a nuas,
Uisge-beatha math, fearail, nach biodh earail ri luaidh;
Deoch-slàinte mo chaileig, is math leam mu ’n cuairt.
Is gu ’n òl sinn i thairis, làn barrach nan cuach.

Ach tha mis’ air mo chuaradh le sgeul chuala mi ’n dé,
Fear eil’ bhi ’g ad bhuaireadh le buaile do spréidh,
’S e ’s feárr le do chàirdean, ’s cha ’n e ’s tàire leat féin;—
’S gar bu ghil’ e na ’n ròcas, gheibh fear stòrasach spéis.

Ach ged tha thu ’g am fhàgail bho’n tha mi gun spréidh,
’S gur e lùigean is fearr leat a charamh ort bréid;
’Bithidh esan ’na shuain air a’ chluasaig gun fheum,
Agus mise gu h-uallach dol mu ’n cuairt do na féidh.


[TD 65]

“A ghaoil! na toir cluas do ’n sgeul chuala tu ’n dé,
Cha toir mi dhuit fuath air son buaile de spréidh;
Thréiginn m’ athair, ’s mo mhathair, ’s mo chàirdean gu léir,
Chuirinn cùl ri fear airg’dach, ’s leanuinn sealgair an fhéidh.”

“A bhradag gun nàire!” thuirt a math air ’s i leum,
“An tréigeadh tu-sa fear-fardaich chumadh sàbhailt thu féin,—
Aig am biodh crodh agus caoraich air gach taobh do na bheinn?—
’S leanadh tu-sa fear-fuadain a bhiodh ’cuairtach an fhéidh!”

Ach ’s truagh nach robh mi ’s mo chuachag ’n àite fuadain leinn féin,
Ann an gorm-ghleannan fàsaich far an rànadh na féidh;
Gun fhios do ar càirdean, gun ghàbhadh, gun bheud,
Is ged thigeadh am fuachd oirr’, chumainn uaip’ e le béin.<eng>

The “Clachan” referred to by <gai>Uilleam Ruighe ’n Uidhe<eng> was, of course, the Church of Kincardine, which occupies a romantic situation within the bounds of the ancient barony. Here the minister of the United Parish of Abernethy and Kincardine officiated on alternate Sundays.


L.

One of the best of shepherds, <gai>Domh’ll Phàil,<eng> tuned the pandean pipes to many an artless melody of truly pastoral key. Unpremeditated in character, they were composed to amuse the passing hour. Very few of them have been preserved.


[TD 66]

Nobody thought of taking them down at the time; and in his latter years the old bard could rarely be prevailed upon to sing the songs of his youth. Here is one of these, known as <gai>“Comhairle Do Shuirdhich,”<eng>—“Advice to Lovers.”

<gai>Ged théid mi do ’n leaba,
Cha ’n e ’n cadal ’tha ’shùrd orm;
’S mi ’bhi ’g ionndrain ’s ag acain,
Fhad ’s o ’n ’dhealaich mo rùn rium.
’S bliadhna leamsa gach seachduin,
Gus am faic mi as ùr i,—
Rìbhinn òg a’ chùil chleachdaich,
Ris am b’ ait leam’ bhi ’sùgradh.

’Rìbhinn donn nam bas bàna,
Thug mi gràdh thar gach té dhuit,
Dhuit thug mi ’n cion-fallaich,
Nach ’eil farasd a thréigsinn;
Mur b’e dhomh eagal mo chàirdean,
Agus càch ’bhi ’toirt béum dhomh,
’S mi gu ’n glacadh am màireach,
Air làimh o na chléir thu.

’S tric a chunnacas e ’tachairt,
Do dh fhìor lasgaire suairce;
Gu ’m biodh a chàirdean ’n a aghaidh,
’N uair a thaghadh e gruagach;
Mur biodh a bun as a beairteas,
’Us a taice ri ’gualainn;
’S nam biodh gìomh innt’ ’am fallach,
Dheant’ a tharruinn an uachdar.

Ach chuala mis’ mar shean-fhacal,
(’S tha e ’tachairt ’an còmhnuidh),
Nach e ’m fear le ’m miann beairteas,
A gheibh leannan gun fhòtus.


[TD 67]

An té ’bhios taitneach le daoine,
Bidh i aotrom ’n a pòca.—
Nam biodh gach cùis air taobh aon té,
Bhiodh an saoghal à h-òrdugh.

Cha ’n ’eil béusan ’us beairteas,
’Us taitneas an t-saoghail,
Ach glé ainmic a’ tachairt
Ann an taice ri aon té;
’S tric a chithear am beairteas,
’Faighinn rathaid air sgaoileadh,
’S buidheann eile le tapachd,
A ’tarruinn pailteas gu aon àit’.

Nis o’n ’ghabh mi sàr-bheachd air
Cuid de chleachdadh na h-òigridh,—
A liuthad fear a gheibh cron
Do ’n fhear dhon’ a ni pòsadh.
’S comhairl’ a bheirinn air caraid,
Leis ’m bu mhath leam ’bhi stòlda:
Gun e ’thréigsinn a leannain,
Ged nach gealladh i òr dha.

Thug mi gaol, ’s, cha ghaol bliadhn’ e,
Do mo cheud leannan-fallaich;
O’n cheud là ’chunna mi riamh thu,
B’e mo mhiann a bhi mar riut.
Gu ’n d’ rinn sgiamhach ’us aogas
Mo ghaoil, mis’ a mhealladh.—
Mala chaol ’s i ro aoidheil,
Os cionn chaoin shùilean meallach.<eng>


LI.

Mr Donald Macrae, banker and writer in Kingussie, composed this song upon Christina Stewart, who afterwards became his wife. Mr Macrae, who was a native of Glenbanchor, died in 1872. One of his sons. Rev. Alexander Macrae, is the eloquent and devoted minister of Crown Court Church, London


[TD 68]

<gai>Thug mi gaol o cheann tamuill
Do nì ’n donn a’ chùil channaich,
’S tha mi duilich nach d’ fhan thu
Fhad ’s bu mhath leam air chuairt.
Ei iùbhro, etc., etc.

Tha mise fo mhulad
Bho ’n chaidh thu air thurus,
’S b’ e mo dhùrachd gu ’n cluinninn,
Nach bi d’ fhuireach ann buan.

Na ’n d’ fhuair mi do dh’ ùine
Na dh’ innseadh mo rùn duit,
Cha bhithinn cho ciùrrta
’N uair a shiùbhladh tu bhuaim.

Na ’n d’ fhuair mi leat féin thu,
Gun duine ’s an éisdeachd,
Chuirinn aithghearr an céill duit,
Gur tu-féin a tha bhuaim.

Cha ’n fhaigh mi de dh’ anail,
Na théid ’shealltuinn mo chaileig,
Tha mise am barail
Gu ’m beil cabhag rium fuaight’.

’S e do nàdar ’s do bheusan,
A thàlaidh mi-fèin riut;—
Cha ’n eil samhladh dha ’m eudail
Ann an ceud am measg sluagh.

Tha beul daithte, ’s e banail,
Deud gheal shnaidhte, ro cheanalt,
Sùil ghorm, mhìogach, chaomh, thairis,
Fo mhala gun ghruaim.

Rughadh àrda, glàn, fìnealt’,
Nach do chomharraich mì-ghean,
Tha dearg air grunnd fìor-gheal,
A’ dìreadh mu ’gruaidh.


[TD 69]

’S mur fhaic mi thu tuillidh,
Ged a dh’ fhàg thu mi duilich,
Cha ’n aithnich fear-fuirich
Gu ’m beil m’ uireasbhuidh bhuaim.

Bho ’n a dh’ fhalbh thu gun m’ fharraid,
Ged nach robh mi ’n a bharail,
’S e mo dhòchas gu ’m faigh thu
Fear dha ’n aithne do luach.<eng>


LII.

This song, which has been appropriately termed, <gai>“Duanag a’ Chìobair”<eng>—“The Shepherd’s Ditty”—was composed by <gai>Domh’ll Phàil,<eng> not long after his settlement in Badenoch as shepherd with his relative and namesake from Rannoch, who had taken the farm of Ballachroan about 1822. Our bard was born at Dalnaspidal in 1798, and died at Kingussie in 1875. In the evening, after a busy day at clipping, it was no small pleasure to hear the genial old man singing some song in a company of shepherds assembled on the green slope beside the fank. For over forty years he resided in Glengoynack. He was the son of Paul Campbell, who was the grandson of a certain Donald Macphail, who assumed the surname of Campbell upon retiring from “Lochnell’s Company,” where he held the respectable position of sergeant. The Macphails once possessed the estate of Ledaig in Benderloch.

<gai>Gu ’m bheil mulad air m’ inntinn,
O’n là thàinig mi ’n tìr so,—
’S nach faic mi mo nìghneag dhonn, òg.
’S nach faic mi mo nìghneag dhonn, òg.


[TD 70]

O nach faic mi a’ chaileag
Do ’n d’ thug mi ’n cion-fallaich,—
’S ann a dh’ fhàg mi i ’n Raineach nam bò.
’S ann, etc.

’S ann a dh’ fhàg mise gruagach
An fhuilt cham-lùbaich, chuachaich,
An taobh thall do Dhruim-Uachdair an fheòir.
An taobh, etc.

Tha déud shnaighte mar dhìsnean
’Am béul meachair na rìbhinn’,
’S gur millse na fìguis a pòg.
’S gur, etc.

Ciochan corrach, ’s iad glé-gheal,
Ann am broilleach a léine,
Mar aiteal na gréin’ ri là ceò.
Mar, etc.

Slios mar eala nan cuaintean,
No mar shneachda nam fuar-bheann,
Calpa cuimir, ’s troidh uallach ’am bròig.
Calpa, etc.

’S cha ’n ’eil sàmhla do m’ luaidh-sa
’Measg na chì mi mu ’n cuairt domh,
Ged a chruinn’cheadh na tha ’shluagh anns an
t-Sròin,
Ged, etc.

’S ged a chruinn’cheadh an dùthaich
Gu féill Chinn-a-Ghiùbhsaich (1)
Cha bhiodh té ann do ’n dùraiginn pòg.
Cha, etc.<eng>


(1) The name of this parish is variously and somewhat indiscriminately rendered. <gai>Cinn Ghiùbhsaich, Cinne Ghiùbhsaich, Cinn-a-Ghiùbhsaich, Cinn a’ Ghiùbhsaich, Ceann-a-Ghiùbhsaich,<eng> are some of the forms given to it in literature. The second is probably the best. The fair referred to was that of St Columba—<gai>Fèille Chalum Chille.<eng> Women usually came to the fair in white dresses, in token of their baptism.


[TD 71]

<gai>Cha ’n e sud ’rinn mo chiùrradh
O’n a thàinig mi ’n dùthaich-s’,
Ach nach fhaod mi ’dhol null air do thòir.
Ach, etc.

Mur biodh ach astar aon oidhche,
Eadar mise ’s a’ mhaighdean,
’S tric a rachainn ’g a foighneachd le deòin.
’S tric, etc.

Ach tha ’n t-astar cho fada
’S nach faod mi ’tighinn dachaidh,
Eagal càch ’bhi ’g am fhaicinn ’s an ròd.
Eagal, etc.

Bi’dh mo mhaighstir ’g am ionndrain
O’n tha ’n stoc air mo chùram,—
’S mi ’g an gleidheadh air cùl Bail-a’-chrò:—
’S mi, etc.

Mi gach latha mu ’n cuairt dhaibh,
’S iad cho duilich ri ’bhuach’leachd
O’n a thàin’ iad gu tuath do ’n Chreig-Mhòir.
O’n a, etc.

’S mòr gu ’m b’ fhearr ’bhi ’g am buach’leachd
Ri mullach na guaille,
Far nach iarradh iad buachaill ri ’n sròin.
Far, etc.

Far nach biodh orm bonn cùraim,
’N uair a chuirinn mo chù riu,
Ged a bhitheadh iad dùinte le ceò.
Ged, etc.

Ach nì mi ’n litir so ’dhùnadh,
’N deis a ’sgrìobhadh dh’ ad ionnsaidh;
’S bi’dh tu cinnteach nach mùth mi mo dhòigh.

’S ged a bheir mi seachd bliadhna,
A’ siubhal nan crìoch so,
Té eile cha ’n iarr mi ’s tu beò.<eng>


[TD 72]

LIII.

John Roy Macpharlane (1) was a brother of that Duncan Macpharlane, who shared the fate of the Black Officer at Gaick. After having won the affections of a girl from Strone, to whom he became engaged, he resiled at the formal contracting—<gai>“air oidhch’ a’ Chùmhnant,<eng> i.e., “on the covenanting night”—on account of his dissatisfaction—chiefly, perhaps, that of his friends—with the tocher which her friends were prepared to bestow upon her. Shortly afterwards he married a daughter of Ronald Mac-donald of Aberarder. The bridal party happening to pass the house where his former sweet-heart lay dying of a broken heart, she asked to be raised to the window in order that she might see them. Upon her wish being gratified, she exclaimed, <gai>“Nis, nis! ni sin an gnothuch,”<eng>—i.e., “Now, now! that will do,”—and lay down never more to rise. The following lines form a few snatches of a song which the poor maiden had composed in her bitter woe:

<gai>Tha mulad, tha airsneul, tha bròn,—
Tha mulad ro-mhòr orm féin,
Mu dhéighinn an fhiùrain a dh’ fhalbh,
Dha ’n d’ thug mise gu dearbh mo ghaol.

Gu ’n siùbhlainn ri uisge ’s ri gaoith,
Cur is cathadh, is caochladh neòil;
’S gu ’n rachainn greis astair mu thuath,
Dh’ fhios an fhleasgaich chaidh suas seach an t-Sròn:—

Dh’ fhios an fhleasgaich dha ’n d’ thug mi mo rùn.
Car tamuill air thùs ’s mi òg;
’S gu n d’ fhag sud snigh air mo shùil,
A ruith o ’m shùil gu mo bhròig.<eng>


(1) He had the Mains of Phoiness.


[TD 73]

<gai>Tha mo chairdean an <eng>anger<gai> ro-mhòr,
Cuir campair gu leòir orm féin;
Ach a dh’ aindeoin na their iad, a rùin!
’S math mo bharail ’s mo dhùil nach tréig.

Gle mhoch-thrath ’s a’ mhaduinn Diardaoin,
Thug ar càirdean oirnn sgaoileadh le bròn.
’S cha ’n ìnns’ mi do neach e fo ’n ghréin,
Mo chumhadh a d’ dhéigh, ’ill’ òig.<eng>


LIV.

One autumn afternoon, the Cluny Dairymaid, who was a native of the parish of Laggan, proceeded to the harvest field to assist the shearers at their work. But though she was yielded the place of honour on the right, to which she was entitled according to the custom of the country, she was left upon the ground alone, no one coming forward to act as her partner. For it was believed that she had encouraged the attentions of one above her own rank in life. This was a youth of the House of Breakachie, or Crubinmore, which was one of the most considerable families in Badenoch. Keenly resenting the contempt which was expressed by the conduct of her fellow-servants, the indignant damsel resolved to perform alone the task allotted to a couple of reapers; and so deftly did she apply her hook, right and left, that she had finished her portion, while the rest of the company were far in the rear. To reach the far-off end of the field first, was, under ordinary circumstances, an object of emulous exertion, but that this honour should have


[TD 74]

been attained by the efforts of a single woman, took everybody by surprise; so that her feat, which may have been performed about the middle of the eighteenth century, is often spoken of still by the country people. Meantime, our heroine seated herself to rest at the end of the rig which she had just shorn, and was singing an improvised song, when the other reapers came up. Part of her song is given below. In these verses she alludes to the insult she had received, and addresses herself to her alleged lover, who was then serving as an officer in the army, like so many members of his family. The song seems to have been carried all over the Highlands and Islands, and, as always happens in such cases, verses have been interpolated in various quarters.

<gai>Feasgar faghair air acha’-buana,
Saoil sibh-féin nach mi bha suarach!
’H-uile té ’s a fear fhéin ri ’gualainn,—
Mo leannan donn-sa, gur fhada bhuaim e.

Nàile! ’s e mo rùn-s’ an cùirteir,
Sgrìobhas litir ’s dha’n aithn’ a dùnadh;
Theid a ’s tigh gu bord na cùirte,
’S thig a mach gu cridheil, sunndach.

Nàile! ’s e mo ghaol an saighdear,
Aig am bi na h-airm a boillsgeadh;
Sgian bheag nan casan daoimean;—
’S fhada shiùbhlainn leat an oidhche.

’S trom mo cheum air sàil mo bhrògan,
’Dol do ’n chlachan air Di-Domhnaich;
Bho nach fhaic mi tigh’nn ’am chòmhdhail,
Am fleasgach donn sin a gheall mo phòsadh.


[TD 75]

Ach ma thig thu gu bràth an rathad,
Feuch gu ’n taogh’l thu ’n taobh-s’ na h-abhuinn; (1)
An gaol a bh’ againn bidh e ’n gleidheadh,
Gus an càirich saor an snaigheadh.<eng>


(1) Cluny and Breakachie being situated on opposite sides of the Spey, strained relations for a time subsisted between the families so named, in consequence of cattle straying through the river on to each other’s ground, and injuring crops. This was very frequently a cause of disagreement between neighbours before the age of wire-fencing.


[TD 76]

SECTION THIRD.

SONGS OF COMPLIMENT.

At the outset, I had intended to have classified this division under some such term as “Songs of Sentiment,” in order that it might include verses expressive of sentiments, whether eulogistic or the reverse. In Irish Gaelic poetry, and in that connected with some parts of our own country, a certain form of satire, not pleasant to meet with, bulks largely. But in the poetry of Badenoch, this vituperative vein is conspicuous by its absence. The votaries of the Muses on the Spey delighted in a sunny, genial mood of good fellowship. In their intercourse with each other, whether as “superiors, inferiors, or equals,” the people displayed in a marked degree the innate courtesy of Highlanders. Natives of the country will retain a vivid recollection of the peremptory way in which old men checked anything like a breach of good taste on the part of juveniles. Everybody took pride in the old-established families of the district, and their joys and sorrows were sure to be reflected in appropriate song. In particular was this the case as regards the House of Cluny, which was ever in favour with the bards. Had they been taken down, the Songs of Compliment would have bulked at least as largely as the elegies, in the Poetry of Badenoch. Indeed both classes have a great deal in common.


[TD 77]

LV.

This song of compliment must be some three hundred years old. It refers to the ancient discord between the rival houses of Cluny and Mackintosh, and affords a delightful glimpse of seignorial magnificence in bygone times. It must be explained that the verses now given formed only part of a bardic passage-at-arms between two female champions, who maintained the honour of their respective chiefs, with the weapon that fell readiest. It is impossible with any degree of certainty to fix the date when these verses were composed. Probably they are about three hundred years old.

<gai>Gheibhte sud an Tigh na Maighe,
Ol is fidhleireachd is aighear,
Farum sìoda ris na fraighean,
’Cur bhainn-tighearnan a laighe.

Gheibhte sud an Tigh Chluainidh,
Cuirm, is copan, is cuachan,
Teine mòr air bheagan luaithre,
’S iad féin ag òl air fìon uaibhreach.

’Ghaoil Lachlainn na biodh gruaim ort,
Cha do ghlac do mhathair buarach,—
Plaide bhàn chuir mu ’guallainn,
Ach sìoda dearg is sròl uaine.

’N uair theid Lachlann do Dhun-Eudainn,
Le ’each cruidheach, craobhach, leumach,
Air beulaobh an righ gheibh e eisdeachd;
’S gheibh a ghillean gun e féin e.<eng>


LVI.

The following ode was composed by worthy Duncan Mackay, who was known in his day as


[TD 78]

<gai>Dunnachadh Gobha,<eng> in honour of “Cluny of the Forty-Five.” The stirring career of this chief has attracted so much attention, and is so widely known, that little is needed by way of introduction here. His father, Lachlan Macpherson of Nuide, who had succeeded to Cluny in 1722—a man of fine character and of remarkably handsome presence—died a few months after Culloden. Had his life been prolonged, it is just possible that the Cluny estates might have escaped confiscation. His wife—the mother of “Cluny of the Forty-Five”—was Jean Cameron, daughter of Sir Ewen Cameron of Lochiel. This lady, who was possessed of no small share of her father’s ability, had chosen the laird of Nuide from among a crowd of suitors for her hand. One of these had sung her praise in the original version of “Lochaber no more”:—

“Farewell to Lochaber, farewell to my Jean.”

She died long after her husband, at Ballintian of Nuide, and was buried in the Middle Churchyard, at a spot which was pointed out to me by two old men, on the occasion of a funeral, at which they happened to be present.

Ewen, the eldest of a numerous family of sons and daughters, was born in 1706. Having cast in his lot with Prince Charles Edward, he raised his clan, and accompanied the Jacobite army to England. Men, whose children survived far into the nineteenth century, used to speak of having been “at Derby.”

The allusions below to <gai>“Pìorat”<eng> and <gai>“na h-eidseachan,”<eng> i.e., “the hedges,” point to the brilliant engagement which took place near Penrith during the retreat, in which Cluny and his clansmen did signal


[TD 79]

service. Sir Walter Scott, who gives an account of the action in “Waverley,” mentions Cluny as having “the merit of supporting the principal brunt of that spirited affair.” Cluny was familiarly spoken of as Eoghainn Ruadh. Everyone, gentle and simple, in those times, would appear to have had some sobriquet or patronymic. The old laird of Foyers, who was in concealment for seven years after Culloden, went by the name of Bonaid Odhar, i.e., Dun Bonnet. Cluny’s son was called <gai>Dunnach na h-àth,<eng> i.e., Duncan of the Kiln.

<gai>A chuideachda, nan éisdeadh sibh,
Ri pàirt de m’ sgeula chlàistinneachd,
Gu’n innsinn mar a dh’ éirich dhùibh,
O léir-thogail na Gàidhealtachd;
O ’n theann a chlann ri mìothlachd ruibh,
’S nach d’ rinneadh Righ de Thearlach dhuibh,
Deanamaid ùrnuigh dhìchiollach,
Gu ’n gleidheadh Crìosd an t-àite dhuit.

Slàn iomradh dha n-ur n-uachdaran,
Gur cìnnte buaidh ’s gach àrach dha,
’N uair ’thogt’ an sròl’ a b’ uaine leis,
’S am fraoch ’s na cnuic a b’ àird’ agaibh;
’N àm ’dhol sìos bu rìoghail sibh,
O ’n t-sreang a b’ ìsle thàirngeadh sibh,
’N uair chluinnteadh fuaim ur làmhaich,
Air ur nàimhdean bu neo-sgàthach sibh.

Mu chùis an leòghuinn bhéuchdaich so,
Bu cheannard tréud ’bha foirmeil e;
Bu lìonmhor crìoch a dh’ éireadh leis,
A rachadh air ghléus gu colgarra;


[TD 80]

Cha b’ urrainn dhomh trìan dheth d’ thréubhantas,
A leughadh ged a thòisichinn,
Gur lìonmhor cuirp bhiodh ciùrrte,
Aig luchd-spùillidh ’n taobh a sheòladh sibh.

Ach c’ uime ’n leiginn mìghean ort,
’S gur h-e so Righ a bhuannaicheas;
’S gur h-i so bliadhna dhìreas (1)
Gach tì a chaidh ’s na bruachan uainn;
Gu ’n gléidheadh Dia gu ’n Rìoghachd iad,
Chaidh ’dh’ fhaighinn sìth thar chuantaibh uainn,
Sgrios air do luchd mìoruin-sa,
’S do shìth thoirt le neart chruaidh lanna.

Gur a lìonmhor càirdean duit,
Cia be thàirngeadh èucoir ort;
Bu lìonmhor as gach àite iad,
Gach sàr-bhratach ag éiridh leat;
Bi’dh thaobh do mhàthar, pàirt diubh ann,
Na Camshronaich ’n uair dh’ éireadh iad,
’S iad gun sgraing gun tùchan,
Bu neo-bhùit an àm an fhéuma iad.

Bi’dh d’ ite fhéin ’ga d’ threòrachadh,
Na Tòisich ’n uair a dh’ éireas iad;
’S an tuasaid air a h-àirde,
Gu ’m bu gharg a dol le chéile sibh;
Gur lìonmhor marcaich’ sranna-mhor sin,
Thug adbhans le céuta dhuibh;
’S a dh’ aindeoin Rìgh ’us Parlamaid,
Gu ’n crùnar Tearlach tréubhach leibh.<eng>


(1) The spirits of the Jacobites were sustained for long by an expectation that, with the advantage of foreign aid, another rising was about to take place. But time slipped away, and these hopes gradually died out along with those who had fondly cherished them.


[TD 81]

<gai>’S an ealta so tha sìnte riut,
Nach dìobradh ’n àm an fhuathais thu;
’N t-àrd Fhrisealach (1) gu dìleas leat,
Nach cumadh sìd air fuairead uait,;
Preas dosrach ’s cha bu chrìonach iad,
Dhearbh an gnìomh air chruadalachd;
Fir dheas ro bhras am fìor-chleasan,
Bhuidhneadh cìs an tuasaidean.

Sreang eile c’uime ’n dìochuimhninn,
Nach fàgadh shìos le éucoir thu;
Gu dualach, cuachach, snìomhanach,
Gur borb ro-rìoghail tréubhach iad;
Gu lannach, dùghorm, targaideach,
’S an argumaid ’n uair ’dh’ éireadh i,
Clann Dòmhnuill (2) gu tréun gailbheach leat,
Ge garbh an tìr o ’n éighear iad.

’N uair ’thàinig spàirn ’san Rìoghachd-s’ oirnn,
Am Piorat co rinn teàrnadh dhuinn;
Gu bheil sibh fhéin cho chinnteach dheth,
’S ged bhiodh e sgrìobht’ air paipeirean;
Gu ’n d’thug e ’n ionnsaidh dhìchiollach,
Mu’m buinteadh cìs aig nàmhaid oirbh;
’S gu ’n chuir e ’n ruaig fìor-chleasach,
’An tìm dhol sìos ’s na h-eidseachan.

’N uair chrom na laoich ’san anamoch,
Bu neo-chearbach sìos gu foirmeil iad;
Bu bheò na ’m feòil ’s na ’m mail’ean iad,
Bu gharg an gnìomh air cholgarrachd;
’N àm rùsgadh lann ’us fhaobhar duibh,
Bha sgaoileadh an luchd chòtachan;
Bha maoim ’am fiamh ur nàmhaid,
Leis na bh’air an sàil ’gan lorgaireachd.<eng>


(1) His wife was Janet Fraser of Lovat.

(2) The Macdonalds and the Macphersons were very good friends.


[TD 82]

<gai>Cha labhair mise tàbhachd ort,
Ach Dia mar gheard ann d’ éireadh leat;
Gu ’n deachaidh d’ainm air shàbhalachd,
Cho fada thall a’s Eirinn uainn;
Gur gaisgeil, smachdail, làidir thu,
Gu ’n caisgteadh mèairle ’s éucoir leat; (1)
’Shir Eóghainn òig Chluainidh,
Rìgh! gu ’n cluinninn buaidh le céuta ort.<eng>


LVII.

This is another enthusiastic ode to Cluny of the Forty-Five. It was composed by Paul Macpherson, a clansman, who resided in the Parish of Laggan, and it is commonly known as <gai>“Deoch-slàinte Thighearna Chluainidh.”<eng> (2) Here also, as in various other pieces, the engagement at Clifton, near Penrith—<gai>Pìorat<eng>—is referred to with justifiable pride on the part of the Clann Mhuirich. Paul Macpherson, who was bard to his Chief, went by the name of <gai>“An Tàillear Mac Dhunnachaidh.”

Deoch-slàinte Thighearna Chluainidh,
Cuir mu ’n cuairt anns a’ chùp i;
Ged a chosdadh i ginidh,
’S mi fhìn nach biodh diùmbach;
Tha na dh’ òlas do shlàinte,
Chrùintean spàinnteach ’am phùidse;
’N déigh am màl a thoirt seachad,
Do dh’ àth-chorc a Phrionnsa.<eng>


(1) Part of Cluny’s duties as Captain of a Watch, consisted in keeping in check the cattle-lifters, whose depredations had become alarmingly frequent.

(2) i.e., The Health-drink of the Laird of Cluny.

[TD 83]

<gai>Ach tha bagar air d’ fhearunn,
Tha toirt gal air mo shùilean;
Mi air ùilleagan leapa,
Cha ’n e ’n cadal ’tha shùrd orm;
Tha bruaidlein inntinn
Orm ’san tìm so le cùram;
Mu na bharanta shàraidh,
Tha ’tighinn an àird oirnn o’n Diùca.

A Chinn-fheadhna Chloinne-Mhuirich,
Leam is duilich ged chualadh
Gu ’n do bhuannaich thu ’n Fhràing oirnn,
’S tu thighinn slàn as gach cruadal:
Oig aigionntaich rìoghail,
’S mòr prìs aig na h-uaislean;
’Fhir a chaisg oirnn gach trioblaid,
’S mòr is misde sinn uainn thu.

’N àm thogail do bhrataich,
Ann an caismeachd uaire;
Gheibhte mìle laoch gasda,
Mu gheatachan Chluainidh;
Luchd nan osanan gearra,
Thairngeadh lannan mu d’ ghuaillean;
’N diugh ’s faoin a tha ’m misneach,
Gun do thiotal an uachdar.

Ach Eóghainn ’Ic Mhuirich,
’S fada d’ fhuireach ’san fhàsach;
’S e dh’ fhàg smal air mo léirsinn,
Thu bhi ’g éiridh ’s na càrnaibh;
Gur lìonmhor bean bheul-dearg,
Tha a bréid air dhroch càradh;
Ged a dhean iad oirnn eucoir,
Cha téid thu g’ an réidhteach.

[TD 84]

Fhuair na Gàidheil an logairt,
’N Cuilodair ’s cha chrìon e;
Air an iadhadh le buidseachd, (1)
Sìol na muice fhuair cìs diùbh;
Chluinnte farum an làmhaich,
Mar thàirneanach frìdhe;
Fuaim nan canan ’g an leigeadh,
Ciamar sheasadh na saoithean.

Bhuaibh tha ’n ionndraichinn chatha,
Tha mi ’labhairt ’san tìm so;
Ma ’s cùimhne leibh fhathasd,
An latha bha ’m Pìorat;
’N àm dhol sìos anns a’ bhatailt’,
’S mairg a chasadh do mhìothlachd,
Leat a dh’ éireadh na gallain,
Nach cuireadh carraid gu mìghean.

Bu lìonmhor do chàirdean,
’S cha bu ghann iad ri leughadh;
’N uair a chluinnte do chaismeachd,
Thigeadh feachd dhiùbh à Eirinn;
Thigeadh sreang dhiùbh à Uithisd, (2)
Air siubhal fo bhréid leat,
Le réubadh cuain ’s le seòil mhara,
Na seòid bharrail nach géilleadh.

Cha b’ e gadachd na h-oidche,
Na traidhtearachd nàduir;
Chuir mo dhìslean gu taice,
Eadar Chaiptein ’us Chàdai;<eng>


(1) The district used to have an unenviable notoriety for witch-craft.

(2) It is known that a number of families of the Badenoch Macphersons settled in the Hebrides; and it is a modern mistake to suppose that nearly all who bear the name in those parts are really Murdochsons, who have no connection with <gai>“Clann Mhuirich bho Bhinnein.”


[TD 85]

<gai>Ach ma chaidh sibh ’s na bruachan,
Cha ’n e ur cruadal a dh’ fhàiling;
Leibh a dh’éireadh am baiteal,
’S b’ e ur cleachda buaidh-làrach.

Tha meirg air nighinn Thearlaich, (1)
’S cha tàr mi ga gléusadh;
Cha chluinnear a làmhach,
Tha i ’ghnàth ann am féithe; (2)
Tha gruaim air na Gàidheil,
’S tha pàirt orm fhéin deth,
O ’n chaidh ar n-uachdaran cliùiteach,
Fo chùram luchd Béurla.<eng>


LVIII.

These verses may be regarded as a handsome disclaimer on the part of some unhappy wight, to whom scandal attributed an intention of betraying the lurking place of Cluny. Another individual, who similarly fell under suspicion, had to fly the country, and failed to get any house for a home within the Highland Line.

<gai>’S mi ’mo shuidh’ air an tulaich,
Lìon mulad is pramh mi,
Mu n-ur déidhinn, Chlanna Mhuirich!
’S leam is duilich bhur càramh.

Mu n-ur déidhinn, etc.
Sibh dhianadh orm fuasgladh,
’S cha b’ e gruaim an àm pàidhidh.

Thoir leamsa gu ’m bu ghòrach
Am fear thòisich ri dh’ ràdhainn,<eng>


(1) His gun.

(2) Many guns which had been concealed on the passing of the Disarming Act, have been discovered in recent times.


[TD 86]

<gai>Gu ’m brathainn do leabaidh,—
Righ! b’ fhad’ e bho ’m nàdur.

Ged fhaighinnsa Lunnuinn
Bho Uilleam gun àicheadh,

Cha ’n fhaca mi riamh thu,
Bho ’n bhliadhna bha ’n camp ann.<eng>


LIX.

The village of Ruthven, being the Castle-town of Badenoch, was a place of great antiquity and considerable importance. Here for long resided the Duke of Gordon’s baron-bailie, who wielded the awful jurisdiction of furcum et fossa throughout the lordship. Ruthven could boast of possessing a court-house, a jail, or black hole, an inn, a mill, a school, a market-stance, shops, and such like.There were usually one or two writers among its inhabitants, but somehow they never throve; for, according to the saying, “There was never an old rich lawyer in Badenoch.” It is surprising to learn from contemporary records, that so late as the last half of the eighteenth century, there are streets alluded to in connection with Ruthven. Besides the villagers, a considerable population resided in the immediate vicinity, at Brae-Ruthven, Knappach, and Drumgallovie. Near <gai>Lochan an Tairbh<eng> (1)—an ominous locality—<eng>Tom na Croich,<gai> i.e., The Gallows Knowe, is pointed out, where the grim machinery of pit and gallows remained until heritable jurisdictions were abolished. Nay, longer; for Mr Allan Macpherson, the Duke of Gordon’s last baron-bailie in the country, who died at an advanced age about 1835, retained until his dying day a fearful recol-


(1) The Lochan of the Bull, i.e. Waterbull.


[TD 87]

lection of the creaking chain which used to terrify him as he took his way to and from school. Another old schoolboy who is still in the land of the living, remembers very well the eerie horror which possessed him in broad daylight when passing between <gai>Lagan na Croich,<eng> i.e., the Gallows Hollow, and the Water-Kelpie’s Lochan.

The accompanying ode was composed by <gai>Dunnach Gobha,<eng> in celebration of James Stewart, baron-bailie to the Duke of Gordon, about the year 1760. We learn that, like many another popular Highland gentleman, he fell into financial difficulties, and had gone abroad. Giorsal—i.e., Grace—was his sister.

<gai>Beir mo shoraidh so bhuam,
Gum beil dorran is gruaim orm féin,
Tre mo dhìochain ’s gach uair,
Air an iarla ghlan, uasal, réidh;
Dha ’m beil onoir mo chleòc,
’S e gun sgaram, (1) gun bhòsd, gun bhréig,
Ris an earbainn mo chluain,
Ged bhiodh ceannsgalach sluaigh mu ’sgéith.

An tigh geal ’sam biodh ’n fhuaim,
’S na clàir mhear air am buailt an teud,
Le ceòl farumach, cruaidh—
Na meòir gheal a bu luaith’ ’s a chléir; (2)
Air an tarruing bho d’ chluais,
Mhic na maise! mo thruaigh an té,
Ghabhas beachd air do shnuadh,
’S nach fhaigh dhachaidh thu buan dhi féin.

’Bhàrr air maise gun uaill,
Gabh do chleachdainnibh suairce féin,
Sàr-bhall seirc an dìth gruaidh!
’S tearc ri fhaicinn do luach air féill.<eng>


(1) For <gai>sgeilm<eng>—vain-glory.

(2) The Presbytery is an unusual designation for a district. But Duncan Gow, or Mackay, was an elder in Kingussie Parish Church.


[TD 88]

<gai>Tha cùl buidh’ ort mai òr,
Air an suidhich bean-òg a spéis,
Taobh do chleamhnan air chòir,
’S gheibh thu airgiod is òr gun déidh.

’S beag an t-ioghna leam òr,
A bhi sìnte ri <eng>motion<gai> céill,
Aig an sinnsir bu chòir
’Bhi ’g òl fìon air a bhòrd mu chéir;—
Fuil an Righ ’s Mhic-an-Tòisich
Air an lìnigeadh beò ’n ad chré;
’S tha thu dìleas do ’n t-seòrs’,—
Cho glan ’sìoladh, ’s tha ’m feòil fo ’n ghréin.

’S nam faigheadh Giorsal bho ’n stòl,
Fear a lìonadh a cleòc ’s gach céum,
Bu sgiath e air mòd,
Chuireadh srian ann an sròn luchd-beud;
Fear a thogadh a sunnd—
Mar nach lìonar na dùthaich féin—
A lìonadh a sùil,—
’S fear a mìle dha ’n lùb a’ gheug.

’S fhir mu ’n ionndraich mi ’n tùs!
’S leathan, lìonar, do chùl ri feum;
’S truagh gun rian air do chùl,
’S d’ airgiod deant’ aig an Diuc gun fheum;—
Ruathainn sgrìobhta bho ’ghrunnd,
Tighinn gu cìs gu d’ dhùthaich féin;
Agus Righ oirnn as ùr,—
’S bhiodh gach ni, Sheumais Stiùbhairt, réidh.<eng>


LX.

There were several families of Macdonalds in Brae-Badenoch as well as in Brae-Lochaber of the <gai>Sliochd Iain Duibh.<eng> A fine soldierly race they


[TD 89]

were. Their eponym was a natural son of Rao’ll na Ceapaich; (1) but, inasmuch as his descendants repeatedly married into the parent stock, their connection therewith suffered no diminution as time went on. One of the families of this House held Gallovie in wadset, an estate which included the farms of Moccoul and Cromara on the west side of the Pattock, and also a pendicle, or plough, of land, lying between Aberarder and Tullochcroma, called Innis nan Gall. In the beginning of the eighteenth century the farm of Aberarder was occupied by a brother, or other near relative, of Gallovie’s—<gai>Iain Dubh Obar-àrdair.<eng> This tacksman—who was a noted hunter in his day—married Catherine of Keppoch, and had—besides a daughter, who was the mother of the Black Officer of Ballachroan—two sons, Ranald and Alexander. Ranald—<gai>Rao’ll Obar-Ardair<eng>—succeeding to the paternal holding, was the father of <gai>Oichear a’ Mhagh<eng>—afterwards designated as of Inbhir-làir—of whom anon,—and also of <gai>Iain Dubh Choille Chonait,<eng> and other issue. Alexander obtained the farm of Tullochcroma. For at this time Aberarder, <gai>Innis nan Gall, Tullochcroma,<eng> and Strath Chruineachdan were separate subjects; and there were besides, such crofting communities as those at <gai>Rugh’ na Màgach<eng> and Comharsan, within the bounds afterwards covered by the single tack of Aberarder. For some time Ranald and Alexander Macdonald held the whole of Glen Shiaro in wadset from the Duke.

The two brothers, having made their peace with Government after Culloden, were able to be of great


(1) They are spoken of as <gai>“Sliochd na ban-fhighiche,”<eng> with reference to the occupation of Ian Dubh’s mother, who was a female weaver.


[TD 90]

assistance to the Prince, when he descended Cor Arder as a fugitive. Both were engaged in cattle-dealing—often journeying to the Borders, and even penetrating far into England, in connection with this trade. Dispossessed of their holdings on Loch Laggan side, under the management of the confiscated Estates Commissioners, and their wadsets in Glen Shiaro having been resumed, the family of the elder brother moved westward, whilst that of Alexander were long associated with the farm of Garvabeg. Alexander seems to have been living at Garvamore when Margaret Cameron, in the following verses, gave expression to her feelings of gratitude towards him for his present of a mart;—or, had she bought it without having wherewith to pay? Alexander was succeeded in Garvabeg by a son of the same name, who was married thrice. This family eventually flitted to Dalcrag in Stratherrick. Alexander the Second’s first wife was a sister of his father’s second wife. Both ladies were daughters of Macdonell of Keppoch.

<gai>Chaidh mi turus chun na féille,
’S cha robh mo sporan g’am réir leam,
Ach thachair orm, uaislean gle ghlan,
’S rinn iad cobhair ghrinn ri’m fheum orm.

E ho, aoi ri ri u.
Ho aoi ri ri u,
Hem u li bho, a bhi ri u.

Alastair òig na gruaige àluinn,
O’n Gharbha-mhòr ’am Bàideanach,
Gu ma fada fallain slàn duit.
Thug thu gibht dhomh ’san damh àluinn.
E ho, aoi ri, etc.


[TD 91]

Thug thu gibht dhomh ’san damh chiar-dhu,
Bha gu fada foinneamh fìnealt’,
Air an robh dà chloich do gheir,
A’s fhuair mi air ’sheiche gini.
E ho, aoi ri, etc.

Alastair an òir-fhuilt shnìomhain,
Gur tu marcaich’ nan steud rìomhaich;
’S math thig òr air tòrr do dhiollaid,
’S nèarachd ban-tighearn’ bhuidhinn cìs ort.
E ho, aoi ri, etc.

Alastair an òir-fhuilt chleachdaich,
’S ann ad aodann a tha ’mhaise,
Dà ghruaidh ort mar ubhall slaite,
Deud gheal dlù air dhreach na cailce,
’S nèarachd gheibheadh pòg gun chais uait.
E ho, aoi ri, etc.

Alastair an òir-fhuilt chraobhaich,
’S beag an t-ioghnadh thu bhi teòma,
’S tu ceannard an teaghlaich ghreadhnaich,
’S b’i do Bhan-tighearn’ I’n Mhic Raonaill.
E ho, aoi ri, etc.

’S beag an t-ioghnadh thu bhi reachdail,
’S làidir do chàirdean fui’m brataich,
’N uair ’dh’ éireadh Mac Raonaill na Ceapaich,
’S Fear Abair Ardair ’na thaice,
S truagh leam nàmhaid chuireadh cais oirbh.
E ho, aoi ri, etc.

Dh’ innsinn duibh aogas an òigfhir,
Fear garbh cìreanach, dh’ fhàs còmhnard,
Do Chinneadh uasal Chloinn Dòmhnuill,
’S math thig ad, a’s spuir, a’s bòtuinn,
’S féile ghrinn duit ’s breacan bòidheach.
E ho, aoi ri, etc.


[TD 92]

’S an uair ’théid thu do Dhùn-Eideann,
’S an Tigh-lagha gheibh thu éisdeachd,
Cha do chuir thu dùil ’san eucoir,
’S théid thu Lunnuinn leis mu’n gèill thu.
E ho, aoi ri, etc.

M’ fheudail a’s m’ ulaidh, a’s m’ aiteas,
Air Alastair an òir-fhuilt chleachdaich,
Dh’ fhalbh thu ’n dé le d’ dhròbh a Shasunn,
’S gu ma slàn, gu’m pill thu dhachaidh.
E ho, aoi ri, etc.<eng>


LXI.

The same authoress addressed Tullochcroma in the subjoined couple of stanzas, at a back-end fair whither she went to procure a <gai>“mart-geamhraidh.” (1)

Alastair òig Thulaich-croma,
Gur tu ’n sonnanach maiseach,
Do dhà shùil fu’ d’ àrd mhala,
’S tearc do choimeas ri fhaicinn;
’S tu sàr mhac an duin’ uasail,
Bha lan cruadail a’s gaisge,
’S mòr m’ aighear a’s m’ eibhneas,
’Dol chun na féille ’n diugh d’ fhaicinn.

Cha d’ fhuair mi ’n uiridh mart-geamhraidh,
Ri àm teanndachd an dùlaich,
Bu mhi-fhéin sud an coireach,
’N uair a rinn mi do dhiùltadh;
Na ’n rachainn a Dhun-blathan, (2)
Fhuair mi dhachaidh le m’ làimh i,
Ach gheibh mi i am bliadhna,
Ma ’s fiach leat mo chainnt-sa.<eng>


(1) A cow to be killed and salted for winter use.

(2) One of the great cattle-trysts of the period was held at Dunblane.


[TD 93]

LXII.

The minister and priest of Laggan having for-gathered one evening at Strathmashie, the versatile tacksman, hugely delighted with them both, composed this <gai>altachadh,<eng> or salutation, in their praise. In all probability the minister was Mr Andrew Gallie, who, like, Strathmashie himself, was deeply concerned in Ossianic affairs, along with James Macpherson.

<gai>Thàinig oidhch’ àraid de ’n t-seachduin,
Dithis de m’ chàirdean ga m’ fhaicinn,
Buidheann nach bàsaich ’am peacadh,
’S buidheach air chàch, ’s iad ’g a sheachnadh.
Creach gu ’n d’ fhalbh iad cho luath,
An acain sheanachais gun ghruaim.
Comunn-tèarmuinn an t-sluaigh,
Dh’ fhàsainn’ meamnach r’an luaidh.

Sud am pòr bu leòir am foghlum,
’Anns gach seòl ’am b’ eòlach daoine,
Eadar an Ròimh ’s Inbhir-Aoradh,
Chaidh gibhtean na h-Eòrp’ orra ’thaomadh.
Co a shaoileas nach b’ fhìor,
’Sheall ’n an aodainnean riamh,
’S tric ’g am faosaid ri Dia,
A’ phaidhir ghaolach gun ghìomh.

Cha ’n fhacas ’an Eirinn no ’n Sasunn,
Luchd-eaglais cho reabhairteach cleachdadh,
’Fhuair gliocas a’s géire gun airceas,
’N am pearsannaibh geur-theangach gasda.
Mach mo ghlòir-sa gu bràth,
Mar bu deònach leam e,
Na ’m biodh stòras gu m’ làimh,
’Bhi ’toirt lòin doibh gu ’m bàs.


[TD 94]

So a’ chluas nach cual’ an dithis,
Iad a ’togail bruaillean dibhe,
Orra fhein a b’ fhuathach guidhe,
’S iad a ghluaiseadh cruas gach cridhe.
’S gu ’n d’ fhuair iad an nigheadh gu glan.
Daoin’-uaisle air nach luigheadh smal.<eng>


LXIII.

This highly complimentary ode by Neil Kennedy, celebrates the praises of Mr Alexander Macpherson, writer, then residing at Faicheam, in Glengarry. His father, born at Briagach, Nuide, became a merchant in Inverness, where he is still spoken of as Bailie Donald Macpherson, senior. The Bailie (1) returned to his native country when advanced in years, and died at Drumghealagaidh in 1802. He is buried in the Middle Churchyard. One of Bailie Donald’s descendants was the late Mr Macpherson of Bailbhadain, Newtonmore.

<gai>Fonn:—
Gu ’m a slàn do ’n Phearsanach,
Tha ’thamh an drasd’ am Faicheaman,
Thug làrach air an Fhasadh (2) dhomh,
An uair a dh’ fhairtlich càch orm.

Na’m bitheadh tu ’n ad uachdaran,
Bu mhaith an ceann do ’n tuath thu,
Cha bhitheadh tu ’g am fuadach uat,
’S e ’m buachailleachd a b’ fheàrr leat.<eng>


(1) He was called <gai>Am Bàillidh Ruadh<eng>—the fair, i.e., reddish haired Baillie. His neighbour, John Clark, went by the name of <gai>Am Bàillidh Bàn<eng>—the fair-haired Baillie.

(2) A township above Oich Bridge, usually spoken of as <gai>An Fhasaidh;<eng> from <gai>Fasadh,<eng> a protuberance.


[TD 95]

<gai>Na’m faighinn-sa gu m’ dhùrachd,
Thu bhi ’d ‘fhactor’ air an dùthaich-sa,
Bu chinnteach mi gu ’n tionndadh tu
Gach dùthchasach gu ’n àbhaist.

’S tu cheannsaicheadh na cìobairean,
’S a b’ urrainn a thoirt strìochdadh asd’,
Gu ’n d’ fhàg thu iad cho sìobhalta,
’S cho mìn duit ris an làmhainn.

Bu ghòrach iad ’n an riaghailte,
A’ teannadh ri cur mìothlachd ort,
’S gu ’m buaileadh tu ’s an fhiacaill,
’M fear a’s miadhail’ anns an àit’ dhiubh.

Cha ’n ’eil anns an t-siorrachd dhiubh
Na sgrìobhas cho maith litir riut,
Cho eòlach, no cho fìosrach,
No cho tuigseach anns gach nàdur.

Tha gliocas ann ad inntinn,
A b’ fheàirde còrr is mìle dhiubh,
Tha ’na do phearsa ’dh-innleachda,
Na chumadh strì gu bràth riu.

Cha ’n eòl domh cron ri àireamh ort,
Gur cuimir gian an t-àrmunn thu,
’N uair ’théid thu ’n deise Ghàidhealaich,
Gur àilleagan mnà òig’ thu.

’S math thig féileadh-breacain duit,
Còta geàrr ’s an fhasan, mar ri
Boineid dhùbh-ghorm thartanach,
Mu ’n Phearsanach is bòidhche.

Gur marcach air each sunndach thu,
B’ e sud an cridhe fiùghantach,
Gur companach do dhiùc thu,
’Tha ri chunntas ’s an Roinn-Eòrpa.<eng>


[TD 96]

LXIV.

Here we have an ode by Colonel John Roy Stewart to the laird of Rothiemurchus, who was called Macalpin, then resident at Tullochgrue. He obtained the patronymic of Macalpin in consequence of his foster parents having belonged to the Clan Gregor. Highland gentry were in the habit of sending their children to be nursed by some married woman of approved trustworthiness, until they would be a few years of age. Connections were thus formed, which were often stronger and more enduring than those of blood-relationship.

<gai>Greas, a ghiulla, ’s bi gluasad,
Air an uair ’s na dean fuireach,
’S thoir soraidh ’n fhir ruaidh bhuam,
Dh’ ionnsuidh uachd’ran na Tulaich;
Agus innis do ’n Tighearn
Gu bheil mi feitheamh air cumant’,
Anns gach càs ’am bi feum air,—
’S an dràst’, ma théid e ’na mhunadh.

Naile! chunnaic mi uair thu,
’S cha b’ fhuathach leat gunna,
Agus mùdan air uachdar,
’Dhol a chuairteachadh munaidh;
’S ’n uair a dheanadh tu sradadh,
Air an leacainn bu luime,
Bhiodh fuil air damh cabrach,
’N uair a leagadh tu d’ uileann.

Fhuair thu urram nan criochan-s’
Air son iasgair a’s sealgair,
’S ma fhuair, gur tu b’ fhiach e,
Air son do ghnìomh anns an anmoch;


[TD 97]

Bu leat tachdair na h-àbhna,
’S càch ’n an luidhe ’g a dearmad,
’S cha bhiodh miann air na mnathan,
Bho ’n ’s tu d’ am b’ aithne a mharbhadh.

Calpa cruinn ann an osan,
’Shiùbhladh faiche a’s garbhlach,
B’ e do mhiann anns an fhrìth,
Paidhir mhial-chon dearbhta’,
’S ’n uair a dheanadh tu fuasgladh
Air na cruachan ’s an anmoch,
’S fada chluinnteadh do langan,
’G an cur ’n an deannal air falbh uat.

’S ’n uair a dheanadh tu leagadh
Ri luchd nan seicheacha dearga,
Bidh tu féin le do Spàinteach
Ag iarraidh fàth orr ’s ’g an leanmhuinn;
’S ma ’s e ’s gu’n teann iad ort crasgadh
Leis na madaidh ’g an eàrr-ruith,
Caogaidh thu-sa ’n t-sùil mhaiseach,
’S air meud an astair bidh sealg leat.<eng>


LXV.

<gai>Uilleam Ruighe ’n Uidhe<eng> proposed the “Health of Grant of Tulloch-Iochdarach” in these flowing terms:—

<gai>Gu ma slàn do ’n Ghranndach so,
A dh’ éigh ’s a phàidh an dram so dhuinn;
’S ge b’ e thàrladh campaid as,
Bu chinnt’ a cheann-sa leòint.’

Cha ’n eil e anns na bacaibh so,
No eadar an dà chachalaig,
A chumadh riut-sa baiteal,
Ach am bata bhi ’n ad dhòrn.


[TD 98]

’S e Granndach Thulaich-ìochdarach,
An t-ògan laghach, ciallach sin;
Cha ’n fhacas riamh bonn gruamain ort,
No stùpan crìon air d’ bhòrd.

’N uair ’rachadh thu na mhunadh,
Is a bheireadh thu do ghunna leat,
Bhitheadh féidh nam mullaichean,
’G am fhurain mu do bhòrd.

An tarmachan cha dìobradh thu,
Air stacan no air sgrìodanan,
’N uair thàrladh thu bhi sìnte ris,
’S cuilbheir caol ’n ad dhòrn.

’S cha ’n ’eil e anns an dùthaich,
A chunntadh riut-sa crùintean,
’S gur lìonmhor caileag shùgach,
A lùbadh leis an òg.

Gur lìonmhor ’n Dun-eudainn iad,
A’s sìoda is sròl-èideadh orr’,
A rachadh leat-s’ a dh’ Eirinn,
’S a thréigeadh na bheil beò.

’N uair théid thu ann do bhreaghachas,
Bidh Baintighearnan ’g ad mhiannachadh,
A h-uile té dhiubh briathrachadh,—
“A chiall! am beil e pòsd’.”<eng>


LXVI.

Lachlan Macpherson, tacksman of Ralia, was descended from the Nuide branch of the House of Cluny. He died in 1813 at the great age of 87. When well advanced in life, he had married Grace, daughter of Andrew Macpherson of Banchor, who predeceased him by many years, and whose prema-


[TD 99]

ture death is feelingly alluded to by Mrs Grant of Laggan. By this lady he had eleven children. He engaged extensively in the important business of cattle-dealing, in connection with which he attended fairs all over the Highlands and Islands, and then proceeded to the South to dispose of his stock. Significantly described to me as, “<gai>Drobhair nach do bhrisd riamh”<eng>—i.e., “A drover who never failed”—he amassed considerable wealth. Referring to the respect in which he was held, the Rev. Mr Martin, a native of Skye, for some time minister of Abernethy, remarked to his son on his return from India, that “there was not a gentleman in the Island but would shake hands with him.” This was honour, indeed, in the good old man’s estimation. Several of Ralia’s sons joined the army, where they performed meritorious service. One of them in particular, as a young officer, having led the forlorn hope at the storming of Badajos, got his name enrolled among the heroes of the Peninsular War. The eldest son. Col. Ewan Macpherson, made and inherited money, with which he purchased the estate of Glentruim from the Gordon trustees.

The subjoined song was composed upon a son named Andrew, on the occasion of his leaving home, by his nurse, Elspeth Grant. By this time Mr Lachlan Macpherson had become tacksman of Breakachy,—the old Breakachy, or Crubinmore, family being represented by Colonel Duncan Macpherson of Bleaton. One who had been in service at Breakachy in the early part of last century has told me that it was a pleasure <gai>(“Bu bhriagh leibh”)<eng> to see all the sons of the house at home together on furlough. This was no other—why should I conceal it?—than my vivacious old


[TD 100]

friend, <gai>Bean a’ Choireachain.<eng> She used to mention that she received five shillings from the Duchess Jane’s own hand, having been despatched, as a little girl, to Kinrara with a present of fresh butter and cream for Her Grace.

<gai>Tha mulad, tha mulad,
Tha mulad orm fhéin,
Mu ’n oganach ghasda
Dh’ fhalbh a Breacachaidh ’n dé,—

Mu ’n fhleasgach og, uasal,
Do thigh Chluainidh nan seud;
Thug thu ’n dùchas bho ’d athair,
Bhi gramail, glan, réidh.

Do mhathair gheal, mhaiseach,
Chuireadh tlachd air cóig ceud,
’Theaghlach Bheannachair ’s Inbhir-Fheisidh;— (1)
Co bu treas’ na na laoich threun.

’S na Foirbeisich uasal
Dh’ éireadh suas leat gu léir;
Buidheann eil’ bha dhuit cairdeach,
B’ ann diù Granndaich Shrath Spé.

Bu tu iasgair na h-amhuinn,
Tric ’g a tamhaich le leus;
Agus sealgair a’ mhunaidh,—
Bhiodh do ghunn’ air dheadh ghleus.<eng>


(1) Mrs Macpherson of Ralia’s father, Andrew Macpherson of Banchor, had married Isabel, daughter of Macpherson of Invereshie, so that in her children were united the three lines, of Cluny, of Pitmain, and of Invereshie, descending from the sons of Ewen, son of Murdoch, the parson—Kenneth, John, and Gillies. Mrs Macpherson of Banchor’s mother was daughter of Colonel William Grant of Ballindalloch. The Banchor family were sprung from the House of Pitmain, which was the second branch of the Clan Vurich.


[TD 101]

<gai>’N uair a chluinnte do làmhaich,
Cha bu shlàn mac na h-éild’;
’S tric a bheum do lamh teine,
Taobh Loch Eireachd so shuas.

Bu tu marbhaich an fhìor-eoin,
’S eoin chrìon na sgéith ruaidh’,
Agus sealgair a’ choilich
’S tric a ghoireas ’s a’ bhruaich.

Nàile! bheirinn ort comhairl’,
Na ’n gabhadh tu i bhuam;—
Ach bidh mo dhùrachd ’ad dheaghaidh,
Bho ’n chaidh tu thar chuan.<eng>


LXVII.

This admirable ode was composed perhaps about 1820 by Malcolm M‘Intyre—better known as Calum Dubh nam Protaigean, i.e., Black Callum of the Tricks—on the occasion of the home-coming of Captain Gillies Macpherson, only son of the Black Officer of Balachroan—<gai>Othaichear Dubh Bhaile-chrodhain<eng>—after many years’ absence on military service. A staunch friend of the Black Officer, Calum Dubh entertained most kindly feelings for his son, to which he had already given expression long before, in the closing stanza of his elegy upon the Loss of Gaick. In 1821, his family having quitted Ballachroan, with which they had been connected for half a century, and he having few relatives in Badenoch, Captain Gillies was hardly heard of in the country until 1853, when he instituted proceedings in order to establish his claim to succeed to the property of Peter Eneas Macpherson, the last of the Phoness family. Peter Eneas, who had been


[TD 102]

living in indigence and obscurity, suddenly became a rich man by the death of an uncle who had long resided in Paris. This uncle was a prosperous jeweller, who narrowly escaped the perils of the French Revolution. On one occasion, his name being in the proscribed list, the secret mark for destruction was placed upon the main door of his shop; but, as good fortune would have it, only an inner door, which bore no symbol, was visible, when the Septembrists wrought spoliation and death among the aristocrats of that street.

After prolonged litigation, Colonel Gillies Macpherson was unsuccessful in his suit to be served heir to the jeweller’s wealth, after the demise of his kinsman, poor Peter Eneas, who had died intestate. Nor am I aware that the Colonel ever again revisited the land of his nativity. I understand that he resided much in Ireland, where he married and had a family, some members of which are, or were recently, alive. Their grand-parent, Captain John Macpherson, was—be it remembered—born in 1724.

<gai>Nar mhealadh mi mo bhreacan,
Ged nach ’eil mi pailt do stòr,
Mur h-eil mi eutrom aighireach,
’S deadh naidheachd air tighinn oirnn,
Mu mhac Caiptein Baile-chrodhain,
Is tu bhi fathast beò.
An deigh tighinn thun na dùthcha
Gu mùirneach ’s tu gun leòn.

’S mùirneach leam do chumalas
O’n bha thu ’d ghiullan crìon,
B’ àilleagan is ulaidh thu
Fhuair urram anns gach tìr;


[TD 103]

Bu shamhladh craobh do ’n chuilionn dhuit,
Nach b’ urrainn càch a shnìomh,
’S a’ phàirc bu ghallan mullaich thu,
Measg bhun do choille chrìon.

’S mùirneach leam gu’n d’ thàinig thu
A nall air bhàrr nan tonn;
Gu ma slàn do ’n chaiptean sin,
Leis an leis an long;
’S cliù a bhi do ’n Fhreasdal
A stiùir i steach gu fonn,
’S a dhìon thu anns na blàraibh
’S ’an iomadh càs ro mhór.

It’ chorra-sgéith air Pearsanaich,
An Caiptean sin Gillìos,
D’ an dùthchas a bhi bagarrach
’N àm aisith thoirt gu sìth;
Làmh threun air eudainn eascairdean,
A sgaoileas bras a lìon,
Luchd a bhòsd ’s nan spad-fhocal,—
’N an gab gu ’n chuir thu ’n t-srian.

Bu leat each cruidheach pilleanach
Nach tilleadh ceum air ais,
Thu fein a bhi ’s an dìollaid,
’S do shrian a bhi ’ad ghlaic;
’S e ’n cruadal ’thug buaidh-làrach dhuit
’S gach àit an d’ rinn thu stad,
’S bu chliùthar am mac Gàidheil thu
’S a’ champ ri àm nan srad,—

Nan srad mar bhoillsgeadh dealanaich,
’S na peileirean ’n an deann,
An uair ’bha camp America
M’ ar coinneamh anns an Fhraing;


[TD 104]

Bu shamhladh ri fraoch beinne iad,
’N a theine anns a’ Mhàrt,
Bhiodh cuid dhiubh ’g iarraidh cheithreannan,
’S cuid eile ruith le gleann.

Tha thu foinnidh fìnealta,
Is bha sud dìleas duit,
Mar sheabhag treun nach strìochdadh
Gun an t-eun a bhi f’a spuir;
Bha thu eòlach fireanta
An àm chur sìos nan trùp,
Trian cha ’n eòl domh innseadh
Deth n’ tha rìoghalachd ’ad fhuil.

Cha ’n ’eil cron ri àireamh ort,
Mur d’ fhàilnich air mo bheachd,
Ach mar gu’n tilgt’ ’an camus thu,
Gach cnàimh is ball mu ’n seach;—
Mar mhnaoi ri naoidhean ràidhe,
Tha do chàirdeas ris gach neach,
Is tha thu uasal, àrdanach,
Ma labhrar riut gu bras.

An uair a thig an Liùnasdainn,
’S Moirear Hunndaidh (1) measg nan eun,
Bidh tus’ ann mar bu dùthchas duit
’San fhrìth air chùl nam fiadh;
Marbhar damh na bùirich leat,
’S bidh sùrd air gleusadh sgian,
’S bidh grealaichean ’g an sgùradh ann,
Sior rùsgadh dhiubh nam bian.

Marbhar boc ’s an doire leat,
Is coileach dubh o ’n ghéig,
Cha tearnar uait an eilid,
Is do pheileirean ’n a déigh;<eng>


(1) The Marquis of Huntly, a constant resident in Badenoch during the shooting season, was a keen sportsman.


[TD 105]

<gai>An àm bhi ’teirneadh beinne dhuit,
Air cromadh do na ghréin,
’S do mhial-choin ’deanamh cheithreannan
Do shionnach ruadh an t-sléibh.

Mo dhùil gu ’m faic mi fathast thu
An tigheadas ro mhòr,
Is gu ’m bi fìon ’g a chaitheadh
Aig na maithibh air do bhòrd;
Bha sud am Baile-chrodhain
An uair ’bha d’ athair beò,
Fìon is cuirm ’g a caitheadh
Mar ri aighear agus ceòl.

Tha aois orm ’s tha easlaint orm,
Is tha mi lag gun treòir,
Tha ’n t-aog agus a theachdaireachd
Gle ghrad a’ tighinn ’am chòir;
Ach bha mi làidir astarach,
Ged nach faic mi nis ach sgleò,
Is gabhaidh mi mo chead dhiot,
O nach fad a bhios mi beò.<eng>


LXVIII.

Mr John Mackintosh, who belonged to Brae-Lochaber, composed this highly eulogistic song in honour of John Macdonald of Garvamore—<gai>Ian Bàn a’ Gharbhath.<eng> This well-known tacksman—himself a native of Lochaber—was a son-in-law of Alexander Macdonald of Tullochcroma, and latterly of Garvabeg. Although our bard has indulged too freely in the wordy adjectival vein, which makes some famous pieces rather bewildering and exhausting to the reader, these stanzas—albeit a torrent of eulogium—have an interest in respect of their theme, and of the rolling music of their metre.

[TD 106]

<gai>Thoir soiridh null uam, ’s na ceil mo dhùrachd,
A dh-ionnsaidh ’chùirteir ’tha ’m bun nam beann:
’S a bhraighe dhùthch’ air an ro-mhath m’ iùl-sa;
’S e’ fàth mo thùrs’ e ’bhi fada thall;—
Nach faic mi ’n treun-laoch ’s a’ spàirn nach géilleadh,
’S a’ chath’ bhiodh éuchdach ’n uair dh’ éireadh ’fhearg.
Tha tlachd le réith-bheairt, is buaidh le tréine,
’S an àrmunn bheumnach nach éisdeadh tàir.

’S e sud an cùirtear a dh’ fhàs gu fiùranta,
Fallain, sùbailte, lùthmhor, garg;
Gu flathail, muirneach, gu maiseach, sùnntach,
Le ’phearsa chùmpaich o ’chrùn gu ’shàil;
Gu cliseach fearr-ghleasach, brisg fo ’armachd
’S an drip, gun anfhainn ’an casgairt lamh,
Cha choltas leanabail ’th’ air mac na meanmna,—
Ge b’ thigeadh doirbh air bu shearbh e dhà.

’S tu rogha ’n t-sealgair ’am fochair garbhlaich,
Le ’d mhìolchoin mheanmnach a’ falbh air éill;
An lomhainn mharbhtach ’bu trice teanchair,
A’ casgairt garbh-chabraich dhearg na cèir’.
’N uair ’leigteadh dian iad a mach ri fiar-ghleann,
B’ i ’n aighir gìomanaich ’bhi ’n an déigh;
Le ’n sùilean giara—le ’n sròn ag iarraidh
Nan aighean riabhach feadh shliabh-chnoc réisg.

Gur reachdmhor, diùlanta, smachdail, lùth-chleasach,
Beachdail, ionnsaicht’ thu ’n cùisean garbh.
Gur cinnt’ a’ chùis nach b’ i ’chulaidh-shùgraidh
’Bhì ’tarruing dlùth riut ’n àm rùsgaidh lann.
Bhiodh stràcan-dùlain ’cur chàich ’s na cuiltean
’N àm bàrcan brùchdach roi ’d ghnuis gun sgàth.
’S gach àit le dùrachd, ’an àm na h-ùspairt,
Bhiodh naimhdean ciùrrta le lùs do làmh.

[TD 107]

Gur math ’thig gartain, is brògan baltach,
Le osain dhathte de ’n chadadh dhlùth,
Is breacan-guailne, le féileadh suainte,
’An caramh cuaich mar bu dual o thùs,
Mu ’d phears’, a threun-laoich, ’théid deas ’n ad éideadh,
Nach tais ri ’d fheuchainn, ’s nach géill gun chliù.
Nach fuiligeadh éucoir—ach, ceartas-réusain,
’S gach car le céill far an éight’ thu ’n cùis.

Gur deas ri ’d fhaicinn fo ’d airm thu, ’ghaisgich!
Le ’d phaidhir dhag ’bheireadh srad ’s nach diùlt;
Le ’d bhiodaig ghlais ort is carraigneach cas.
Air a cur le snas ann an gath nan lùb;
’S an claidheamh géur ’dhianadh sgath is reubadh
Is àrach dhéurach le créuchdan ciùrrt’,
Bu ro-mhath ’d fhéum leis,—Gur tearc fear ’d éugais,
A leóghainn chréuchdaich nan géur-lann cùil.

Cho chiùin ri maighdinn ’an tùs a caoimhneis
Ri leannan-oidhche, làn loinn is gràidh,
Tha ’d inntinn chaoimhneil, le ’d aigne shoillsich,
A thogas sloinntearachd do ’d luchd dàimh.
Le tùr is eòlas, le tuigse shònraicht’
A thagairt còrach gun ghò ’n ad chainnt.
Air fad a’ chàirdeis gu ’n sloinn thu ’n àird e;
’S gu bràth cha ’n fhàillinich far an geall.

Tha mis’ ag ìnnse mo bheachd le fìrinn,
Cha cheil mi m’ ìnntinn air tì ’s a’ chàs;
’S ge b’ aobhar strìth e, gu ’m fuiliginn mìostadh,
Mu ’n deanainn strìochdadh ’s na rinn mi ’ràdh.—
Bha m’ fhuil ro dhìleas do ’d mhathair-chìche,
Rinn d’ àrach prìseil le brìgh a cnamh—
Le sruithin uaibhreach a cuaislean uasal,
A chàirich snuadh ort le buaidh thar chàch.<eng>


[TD 108]

LXIX.

Lieutenant-Colonel Ranald Macdonald, Deputy-Adjutant-General, Bombay, was a nephew of Ian Bàn a’ Gharbhath’s wife, and consequently a grandson of Alexander Macdonald of Tullochcroma, of whom before. His father, commonly called Gilleasp Mac Alain, had the farm of Gaskmore in Laggan, where Ranald was born. Afterwards he took Coul, with which place his family were long connected. Colonel Macdonald joined the army in boyhood, and continued in the service until his death, which took place in India in the year 1848. He took part in the expedition to Sweden in 1808, fought in the Peninsular War and at Waterloo, serving afterwards in the West Indies and in India, whither he accompanied Lord Keane in 1834, as Adjutant-General of the Queen’s troops. For some years he officiated as military secretary to His Lordship, and in the course of his subsequent military career was present at the capture of Kandahar, Ghuznee, and Kabul. Greatly beloved and esteemed in India, where he had established for himself an affluent and honourable position, Colonel Macdonald never forgot the parish of Laggan and the associates of his early life. This amor patriae, cherished throughout a busy life of active duty abroad, he gave proof of in many substantial ways. It is small wonder, therefore, that among the inhabitants of his native district, the name of <gai>Othaichear na Cùil,<eng> i.e., the Officer of Coul, was held in fond respect. Courteous, brave, and true, he was indeed the beau ideal of a Highland soldier.

The following ode, by Archibald Macdonald from Brae-Lochaber, is entitled “The Health of Colonel Ranald Macdonald.”


[TD 109]

<gai>Hù-bhó! ’illean! òlaibh uil’ i,
’S na biodh duin’ agaibh ’g a diùltadh.
Hù-bhò! ’illean! etc.

Olar leinn deoch-slàint’ a’ Choirneil,
Ghillean òga! bitheamaid sunndach;
Guidheamaid air Righ na Glòrach,
Raghnall òg a thoirt gu ’dhùthaich.

’Se mo rùn an Coirneil Bràigheach,
Riamh cha d’ ghabh ro’ namhaid cùram;
Le ’d thricead an cath nan claidhean,
Seinnear anns gach àite cliù ort.

’S trice bochdan is diol-déircich,
’G iarraidh air Mac Dé do stiuradh,—
Do theasairginn ’an cath ’s an gàbhadh,
’S do thoirt sàbhailte gu ’d dhùchas.

O na chaidh tu ri do leanmhuinn,
Buidheann nan gorm lann ’s nan lùireach;
Luchd chlogaid is sgiath stàilinn,—
Na sloinnear gu bràth air a’ Chùil thu.

Sliochd nam fear o’n Cheapach àluinn,
Nam bratach àrd, ’s nan sròl siùbhlach;—
Suaicheantas soilleir nam Bràigheach
’G a nochdadh ri càch ’s cha b’ e sùgradh.

C’ ait’ am facas riamh na ’n cualas,
’N deas na ’n tuath rinn cuan a reubadh,
Aon mhac Domhnullaich ’thug buaidh ort,
’Tarruing sluaigh gu cruas nan geur lann.

Chithear ’d onair air do bhroilleach (1)
Rionnag sholuis nan clach ceutach,
Choisinn thu le cruas do lamh i,
Cuir do namhaid gu cas geilleadh.<eng>


(1) Colonel Macdonald was a Knight of the White Horse of Hanover and C.B.

[TD 111]

<gai>’N uair a theid thu ceart fo ’d armachd,
’S glan do dhealbh, do dhreach is ’d eugais,—
Dìreach, cumadail, neo-ghàireachdail;
’S tu gun chron, gun chearb, gun bheud, ort.

’S lìonmhor àit’ am bheil dhuit cairdean,
Dh’ fhìon fhuil àrdanach Chuinn cheud-chaich,
’S car bho Mhoraire Dhuntuilm thu,
Thogadh armailte nach geilleadh.

Tha e soilleir air a dhearbhadh
O eachdraidh Alba agus Eireann,
Shìol Chormaig, is Chuinn, is Art thu,
Dheanadh creach is feachd a reubadh.

Gu ’m bu choltach iad le’n cabhlach,
Seòladh a’ nall as an Euphaid,
Fhuair iad righreachas na Spàinte,
Thug iad greis a’ tamh an Eirinn.<eng>


LXX.

This dithyrambic chaunt was sung by Archibald Macdonald, when proposing the health of <gai>Othaichear na Cùil<eng>—i.e. the Officer of Coul—after he had been advanced to the rank of Lieut.-Colonel. The Colonel was in the habit of sending money every year for behoof of the poor of his native parish, and also of giving a shinty match at Drumgask, which used to attract a great gathering of people. We can imagine how heartily the toast of the gallant officer would be responded to on such occasions. This ode, like the preceding, may have passages somewhat in King Cambyses’ vein; but due allowance will be made, when the circumstances under which they were composed are taken into account.


[TD 111]

<gai>’S binn an sgeula ri àireamh,
A rinn mi leughadh ’s a’ ghàsaid,
Air a sgrìobhadh gun fhàilinn,
O lamhan na Ban-righinn,
Thusa Raghnaill and dràsta,
’N a do Choirneil air àrda,
’S beag ioghna le càch e,
’S gur tu iar-ogha Mhic Raghnaill (1)—
Thu bhi barraicht air àl an taoibh-tuath.

’S ged a b’ òg thu ’n uair dh’ fhalbh thu,
S’ a chaidh tu air fairge,
Gun aois ach do leanaban,
Chum thu cuimhne neo-chearbach
Air an fhiùghantachd ainmeil,
Aig sàr-ghaisgich nan garbhchrìoch,
Bha do chridhe ’g a dhearbhadh,
Cuir dhachaidh an airgid,
Thoir òl dhuinn air Druimaghaisg,
Chumail cleachduinn do leanmhuinn a suas.

Cùm a’ ghloine sin còmhnard,
Dean a lìonadh ’s na sòr i,
Aisig barrach i dhomhsa,
Chum ’s gu ’n dianuinn a h-òl ort
Le toilinntinn ’s le sòlas,
Le aigheir ’s le mòr-chuis;
So deoch slàinte a’ Choirneil
Tha do dh’ fhìon fhuil Chlann Domhnuill nam
buadh.

Ach air chumhnant thu thighinn,
Rachainn mìltean do slighe,
’S mi nach sòradh an uidhe,
’S a chuir fàilt’ ort gu cridheil;<eng>


(1) His grandmother—Mrs Macdonald of Tullochrom—was Keppoch’s daughter.


[TD 112]

<gai>Theireadh càch gu ’m bu dligheach
Dhuit bhi bàigheil ’s a’ chridhe.
’S ma ’s a rianadair dibh’ thu,
Faic a shlàinte-sa rithist mu ’n cuairt.

Ma ’s a slàint’ i, sguab as i,
Gun òlainn i, ’n ceart-uair,
Air chumh’ thu thighinn dachaidh,
Thar na cuaintean do Shasunn,
Leis an reiseimaid sgairteil,
Air nach cùalas riamh masladh,
’S a ceann’ feadhna na taice,
Fhuair foghlum ri gaisge,
Dol an comhstri nam baiteal,
Gum bu shòlasach d’ fhaicinn romh shluagh.

Tha thu dìreach deas ullamh,
O do shaìl gu d’ bharr mullaich,
Dh’ aithnicheadh càch thu air thuras,
’G imeachd sràid bhaile Lunnuinn.
’S tearc àicheadh do chumadh,
Measg na miltean ceud curaidh
Bu tu sgàthan gach duine—
Thug an Righ dhuit an t-urram,
Nuair a shìn e dhuit rionnag,
As a làimh ’g a cuir onarach suas.

’S lìonmhor Iarla agus Diùca,
Agus Moraire cliùtach,
Leis’m bu mhiann bhi ’do chùirt-sa
Dian a leigeadh a rùin riut,
G’ iarraidh comhairle-cuìs ort,
O’ na dhearbh thu bhi tùrail,
’S gu bheil meas aig a chrùn ort,
Fhuair thu sud air do chùram—
Mìle gaisgeach nach diùlt leat an uair.


[TD 113]

’S ro mhath b’ aithne dhomh àireamh,
’Stoc nan craobh as an d’fhàs thu,
Cha bu chrìon-choille sgàileach,
Ach na daragan àrda.
Craobh chosgar nam blaraibh,
Dh’ aithnicheadh faram ar claidhean,
Co-fhreagairt d’ar lamhach,
’S ruaig goirt air ar namhaid,
Nuair a thogta na h-armuinn o Ruaidh’.

Ach mu’n leigeadh iad beud ort,
Le foirneart luchd eucoir,
’S lìonmhor gallan glan treubhach,
Dhianadh ullamh leat éiridh,
Fo bhreacan an fhéilidh,
Leis na glas-lannaibh geura,
’S bhiodh an namhaid fo ghéill mar bu dual.

’S tu nach gabhadh bonn cùraim
’S nach tilleadh le mùiseadh,
Ge do thigeadh iad dlùth ort,
Na Frangaich gun chunntas,
Troigh air ais cha bu diù leat,
Bhi air adhart do dhùchas,
Leis na geur lannaibh rùisgte;
Aig na rinn thu ’g an sgiùrsadh,
Raghnaill oig! ’s fhad bhios cuimhn’ ort ri luaidh.<eng>


LXXI.

The marriage of Miss Macpherson of Cluny to Captain Fitzroy was made the occasion of general rejoicing throughout Badenoch. People of every class vied with each other in celebrating the nuptials of one who had greatly endeared herself to all,

[TD 114]

and whose marriage was the first event of the kind that had taken place in the Cluny family time out of mind. As the bard of his clan, <gai>Domh’ll a’ Chnuic<eng>—i.e., Donald Macpherson, Knock—composed an epithalamium in honour of the occasion, of which the following are a few stanzas. This fragment hardly does justice to my lively old friend, who undoubtedly was possessed with some portion of bardic fire, which, however, found vent chiefly in witty satire. <gai>Domh’ll a’ Chnuic<eng> belonged to a sept of the Pitmain Branch, called <gai>Na Biallaidich Bhus-dubh,<eng> i.e., The Swarthy-mouthed Ones of Biallid.

<gai>’S i so deoch-slàint’ a’ chupuill òig
A phòs ’an Caisteal Chluainidh;
’S a dh’fhalbh Diar-daoin le aoibhneas as,
’S an staoidhle ma bu dual daibh.—
Bi’dh sinne ’guidhe sòlais dhaibh,
’S ag òl le làn na cuaiche—
Saogh’l buan ’us mòr thoil-inntinn dhaibh,
’S iad ’cinntinn mar an luachair.

’N uair ’thàinig beul na h-oidhche,
Bha aoibhneas a’ measg uaislean,
Bha aoibhneas ann am Bàideanach
’S gach àit’ ’an cualas luaidh air.
Bha ’n tìr gu léir a’ soillseachadh
Mar dhaoimeanan mu’n cuairt duinn,
’S mar mheadhon là bha ’n oidhche
Le tein’-aoibhneis air gach guallainn.

Bha Còirneal Bhaile-bhileadh (1) ann,
Nach tilleadh le ’chuid armachd—
Bha còrr a’s còig eich fhichead aige
’Tarruing giubhais sgealbta;—<eng>


(1) Col. Brewster-Macpherson, who in 1862 had succeeded to the estate of Balavil on the demise of his aunt, Miss Ann Macpherson, the last surviving of the children of James Macpherson.


[TD 115]

<gai>Sud ’s cliù air Fear Pairc-an-t-Seipeil, (1)
’S gun cheisd cha’n fhacas cearb air:
’S gur mòr an cliù tha ’m Bàideanach,
’S gach àit’ ’an cualas ainm air.

Ach ’s i ar guidhe ’n trà so,
’S gu bràth do’n chàraid uasail,
An t-Ard Rìgh ’bhi ’na gheard orra,
’S gach àit’ ’an dean iad gluasad;
’S iad leantuinn lorg an sinnsearachd,
’S gu cinnteach bi’dh iad buadhach;
’S ar dùil gu’n till iad sàbhailte
Chur fàilt’ air Tighearna Chluainidh.<eng>


LXXII.

This ode was recited at a large gathering of people at Glenquoich Lodge in connection with the rejoicings on the occasion of the marriage of Mr J. E. B. Baillie of Dochfour and the Hon. Nellie Bass.

<gai>Mar aiteal Samhraidh ’ruagadh uainn
Greann nuarranta nam Faoilteach;
Mar cheileir eun fo Chnoc na Gaoith’, (2)
A dhi-chuimhnich an fhunntainn;
Mar sheirm chlag binn bho bhruighin shìth’,
Dha ’n astaraich air faontra;
Thain fios do bhainns’ e Lunnainn oirnn,
Le gairdeachas ’g ar lìonadh.

Gur aghmhor, cruinn fa ’n iarmailt ghuirm,
Grian shuaicheantas nam Bàill’neach,
Gu boidheach ’dearsadh ’measg nan reann,
’N a greadhnachas gun fhaillinn;<eng>


(1) Mr Donald Macrae, bank agent and writer in Kingussie.

(2) A height above Dochfour.


[TD 116]

<gai>Mar shamhladh buan air rath do chuairt—
A chaoidh ’s e so a b’ fhearr leinn—
Ur-fhleasgaich òig, a fhuair le còir,
Roinn mhòr do Thir nam Beanntan.

’S e ’m fiùran grinn e stochd Dhun-ìan,
Dh’ fhas freumhach, smiorail, làidir;
Mar sgiath a’ choilich-dhuibh a chiabh,
Aig bun Loch Nis fhuair ’arach.
Gun sloinnear thu tre linntean nuas,
Bho uchd nam Brusaich allail;
’S gur uasal pòr do ’m bheil thu ’n càr,
Sar-Ghordanaich Shrath Bhalgaidh.

A’ bhaintighearn chiuin nan iomadh buaidh,
Thug ciall is tuigse tràth dhuit;
’S i bhi car ùin cho fad bho thuath,
Fàth ionndraichinn an dràsda.
Bìodh Righ nan Dùl, do ’n lùb sinn glùn,
’G a furtachadh chum slàinte;
’S do dhìlsean caomh, mar bhadan chraobh,
Gu ’n soirbhich iad gu ’n ailgheas.

Ri taobh Loch Cuaich nan greidhean ruadh,
B’ e miann luchd-seilg ’bhi tamh ann;
Bhi ’g èaladh thall mu Ghearraich àird,
’S an Coire Buidhe laimh ri.
Ach b’anns’ le d’ shuil, seach rannsach’ shuas,
Nan sgùrr ’s nam binnean ceòthar,
A’ mhang bu mhìn, fo Ghlodhraich (1) shìos,
Gu bichiont’ ’gabhail comhnuidh.

Gun d’ thug thu gradh do’n ribhinn àill’
Tha meachair, blàth, thar mhòran;
A thaisbean riamh ’n a h-uile gnìomh,
Na subhailcean bu shònruicht.<eng>


(1) The place-names introduced in this stanza are connected with the Forest of Glenquoich, which has been long occupied by Lord Burton.


[TD 117]

<gai>S e sin bha dù do’n chàraid fhiù,
A choisinn cliù mar chomhla;
’S gur lionar neach d’an aithn’ an cleachd
’Bhi oircheasach, neo-spòrsail.

An diugh, tha muirn ’s a’ Chaisdeal Ruadh—
Cul-daothail cha bhi dheigh-laimh;
Am Bàna, ’n Dubhras, ’s Inbhir Nis,
Gach slios cur suas tein-éibhneis.
Mar so gu leir, feadh chrìoch Ghlinn Eilg,
’S Gleann Seil’ nam frith ’s nan aonach;
’S bidh fonn air cirb na Beinne Bric,
’N Cinn-ghiùbhsaich ’s mu Ghleann Gòineig. (1)

Do bheath, le d’ rùn, gu Tigh Dhochfuir!
Sud tuineadh nan tùr dealbhach,
Air lochan seimh, mar ghloine réidh,
Bu bhriagh le h-eal’ ’bhi snàmh ann.
Tha ’n Doire-mhòr ’na dhìon gu leòir
Bho ghaillinn reòt’ a’ Gheamhraidh;
’S bu raghainn shùl an fhas-choill dlù,
Mu ghlaic nan smùd ’s nan smeorach.

Do bheath, Dhochfuir! gu dùich do shluaigh,
Fàilt, fàilt! do d’ nuadh-mhnaoi ghaolaich.
Tha uaislean ’s ìslean ’guidh’ do ’n dìth’s,
Ceud mile fàilt an taobh so.
Biodh beannachd Dhé leibh fad bhur ré,
’Toirt sìth is sonais daonnan;
Is gu là luain, a dh’ ionnsaidh cuain,
Bidh Cuaich is Nis an aonachd.<eng>

T. S.


LXXIII.

I am unable, for certain, to identify the individual to whom the following complimentary verses by Margaret Cameron were addressed. He must have


(1) All the places mentioned in this stanza are connected with the Dochfour estate.


[TD 118]

flourished about the middle of the eighteenth century, and would be a contemporary of Alexander Macdonald of Tullochrom, whose praises were sung by the same poetess in several odes. It is probable that Captain Alexander Macpherson, secretary to Admiral Boscawen, was the person referred to. But not a few scions of the House of Cluny entered the navy.

<gai>Alastair òig Mhic-a-Phearsain
Nam pìob a’s nam bratach,
Gur ceannard fear feachd thu,
Fhuair mi sgeul ort an geartair
Chuir air do mhuinntir mòr aiteas,
Thu bhi ’pilltinn ’nall dachaidh ri d’ thìr.
Thu bhi ’pilltinn, etc.

An déigh gach cunnart ’s gach gàbhadh,
A ghaoil, as an d’thàin’ thu,
Air muir a’s air sàile,
’Cumail cogadh ri d’ nàimhdibh,
Thig thu dhachaidh gun taing orr’ a rìs.

B’e sud an t-Alastair cùl-leath’nn,
Nach gabhadh bonn cùraim,
A loingeas a stiùradh,
Air àirde a cùrsaidh,
E féin ’s na fir ùra,
Buille-druid aig air cainb, ’s i ri gaoith.

B’e sud an t-Alastair gasda.
Nan gorm shùile maiseach,
Nach gabhadh bonn gealtachd,
A loingeas a shocrach’,
Ged bhi muir airde ’stoic aic’,
’S ann a dh’iarradh tu thoiseach a rùim.


[TD 119]

B’e sud an t-Alastair gailbheach,
Leis an eireadh an armailt,
Nach fhaighte bonn cearb orr’,
Stiùradh loingeas air fairge,
Bhi’dh sgapadh ’ur nàimhdean o’n taobh.

Gheibhte darach ’ga fheuchainn,
’S a’ mhuir anns a’ bheucail,
An canain ’sa ghéisgeil,
’Cur an nàimhdean o chéile
Far an tachradh tu féin riu ’s do shuinn.

’Nuair a bhiodh tu dhiubh dìolta,
’S tu an déigh an cìosnach’,
Chluinnteadh feadan do phìoba,
’N iùbhaidh dheac’ra dhìreach.
’S cha’n aithnicht’ bonn sgìos oirbh’ na dhéigh.

’Nuair ’thigeadh thu gu tìr,
Le d’ loingeas mhòir phrìseil,
’S iomadh ban-tighearna rìomhach,
Le sròltaibh ’s le sìoda,
Bheireadh pailteas de nì dhuit
Air chùmhnant, ’s shìneadh ri ’d thaobh.

Leam is duilich ’s gur cràiteach,
’N diugh acain do phàrant’,
Ann an déigh do bhràithrean,
O thàinig am bàs orr’
’S gun duine de’n càirdibh ri an taobh.<eng>


LXXIV.

Brigadier-General Ewen Henry Davidson Macpherson of Cluny Macpherson, was born in 1836, and died in 1900. The second son of “Old Cluny” (1804-1885), he succeeded to the family honours


[TD 120]

and estates on the death of his elder brother, Colonel Duncan, in 1886. Gazetted to the 93rd Highlanders, in 1854, his military career extended during the whole remaining portion of his life. In 1892, he received “a grant for distinguished and meritorious services.”

It was when he was a young man and serving abroad, that this song in his praise was composed by Donald Eraser, for a long period gamekeeper on the farm of Aberarder on Loch Laggan-side.

<gai>Mo chiad fàilte le dùrachd,
Air an tàinisteir chùirteil.
Is àrd onoir is biùthas,
Ann an gaisge ’s an giùlan,
Ann an cogadh ’s am mùiseag.
Thug bho d’ athair bhi cliùiteach,—
An ceann-cinnidh mu ’m muirneach na Gàidhil.
An ceann-cinnidh, etc.

An uair bu chìocharan maoth thu,
Léughteadh sud ’n ad ghnùis aobhaich:
Ciùine, seirc, agus daondachd,
Buaidh, smac, agus caoine,
Misneach, ’s cruadal gun staoine,
’S cha b’ e cheannach no chaochladh,—
Nìthean neartaich an aois ann ad nàdar.

’S àrd do chliù, ’s geal an airidh,
Anns gach dùthaich ’g a aithris,
Ge b’ e thairgeadh dhuit carraid,
Cha bhiodh ùine ach aithghearr,
’N uair rùisgeadh tu claidheamh,
Fhir a chruadail gun athadh,
Nach gabh fuathas, ’s nach tarrainn bho ’d nàmhaid.


[TD 121]

’S beag an t-ioghnadh sud leinne,
’S tu ’n fhuil uasail gun tioma,
Clann Mhuirich bho Bhinnein, (1)
Na fir lùthor gun ghiorraig,
’G éirigh suas fo ’n ceann-cinnidh,
’S tric chuir ruaig air luchd-bhriogas,
S rìoghail, uasal am fine ’s gach àit iad.

Mo dhùrachd cridh’ agus m’ achain,
Saoghal buan duit, a ghaisgich,
Dia nan gràs bhi ga d’ neartach’,
Ga d’ chuir sàbhailte dhachaidh,
Na d’ àrd-cheannard air feachda,
Do chaisteal rioghail a’ phailteis,—
’S òlaidh miltean le aiteas do shlàint’ ann.

Aros-tàimh sin do shinnsrean,
Shuidh an Cluainidh bho linntean,
Cumail còir ris na righrean,
Ann an cogadh ’s an dìobairt,
Dh’ aindeoin uabhair luchd-mìorùin,
’S a tha fhathast le cinnte
Ann an cairdeas ’s an dìlse na Banrigh.<eng>


(1) This designation, which is doubtlessly of great antiquity, would seem to imply that the heir-male of Gillicattan Mor had his residence in the neighbourhood of Ardverikie.


[TD 122]

SECTION FOURTH.

SONGS OF HUMOUR.

Songs of this description were in much favour, and the company of persons who could compose them was eagerly sought after. Bright, genial-hearted individuals they always were. Often in very indigent circumstances, they possessed an untroubled contentment of mind, and buoyancy of spirits, that the rich might envy. Cheerful themselves, they dispensed a spirit of gleeful good-fellowship among others. When a number of neighbours were assembled at casting peats, harvesting, sheep-shearing, or such like, one can remember how much more briskly the work in hand went on, when minds were merrily engaged by the arch sallies of witty old men and women,—how, under the influence of their pleasantry, even the naturally sluggish were roused to activity, and the tedium of the day was beguiled for all. The species of humour to which I refer, often embraced within its scope even animals, who were treated with playful fellow-feeling. I suppose it must be allowed that in respect of wit in the technical sense, as differentiated from humour—or, let us say, humorous irony—Gaelic Poetry is not particularly strong. An arch wit frequently added a charm of its own to the rhymes of the improvisatore.


[TD 123]

LXXV.

Once upon a time, the Tacksman of Strathmashie, accompanied by a number of his retainers, proceeded to the Coille Mhor—or, Great Wood—of Loch Laggan, to obtain timber for a house which was being built. As there was no road along the loch side, they intended to float the cabers, and for this purpose were preparing a raft. But ere they had completed their arrangements, this structure glided out upon the water, carrying off one of the men. Amidst the noise of shouting, and the hurrying to and fro, which this mishap occasioned, the Tacksman perceived the humour of the situation, and after getting home—no one being a whit the worse—he composed this song, in which he makes merry over the contretemps which had occasioned such commotion. It is in his best style, and was very popular down to the present generation.

<gai>Fonn—Ho! nan tigeadh
Mo robairneach gaolach!
Le ’bhìrlinn bhig, laghaich,
’Dol air ’adhart ’na aonar,—
Ag imeachd na linne,
Gun iomairt gun aodach,—
B’ aighireach sinne,
Nan tilleadh a’ ghaoth e!

Dh’ fhalbh e uainn air Loch-Lagain
(’S e gu baganta, cuanta):
Maraich òg air luing-chabraich—
Taobhan fhad, agus buaile—
’G iomairt lònn dearg nam bradan,
Gus am b’ fhada leinn uainn e.
Tha eagal orm-sa nach stad e,
’S gun ach gad d’i gun fhuasgladh!


[TD 124]

Thàinig oirnne ’s an àm ud,
Sgiobair ceann-dearg Ard-Mheirgidh.
’S thuirt e ’ghèarr-fhacal cainnte:
“Tha bràthair-ceairde ’na éiginn.
Ma ’s maraich’ a th’ ann,
’S cìnnt’ gur h-ainneart do ’n géill e.
Bi’dh mo bhean-sa ’n a bantraich
Mu ’n caillear leis-fhéin e!”

Ach an sin gu ’n duirt Calum
(’S e-fhéin ’s an drama ’bhi cluaineis):
“Gur h-e ’th’ ann ’n sud long-bhathair—
Beòir, tombaca, ’s fìon Suaineach!
’S gu ’n glac sinn do ’n rìgh i—
Spùillear tìr agus cuain i.
Gluais, a ghoistidh, cuir sùrd ort—
Rach a null, ’s cuir taod-cluais innt’.”

’S thuirt an sgiobair: “Faigh each dhomh,
’S théid mi mach leis air ghaoisid.”
’S thug e ionnsaidh le cabhaig,
Air gearran na Caomhaig’.
Ach thuirt Caorstaidh gu cas ris:
“Tìll air d’ ais, cha téid taod ann;
Cha leig mis’ an t-each breac ann,
Ged nach faicteadh a chaoidh e!”

Ge do chaidh dheth ’s an t-seòl ud—
(Le gròbag na h-airce),
Cha do mheataich a chàileachd—
Thug e làmh ’dheanamh fleasgairt.
Thaghadh fiodh, agus saoir leis,
Pailteas aodaich, ’us asgairt.
’S gu ’n do thòisicheadh còmhluath,
’S Mac o’ Dròicheam ’cluith phorta.

[TD 125]

Fear ’us tuagh, fear ’us tàl,
Fear ’us sàbh, fear ’us locar,—
Fear ’us tora, ’n a làimh,
Fear ’us teàrr ann am poit aig’!
’S ged ’bu tolltach a h-earball,
’S math a dh’ fhalbhadh i foidhinn’—
B’ fhiach i seachd ceud deug marg,
’Dh-aon airgiod air domhan!

’N uair a chuireadh air bòrd sinn,
Fo òrdugh ’n àrd-mharaich’,—
Gu ’n do chuir sinn fo sgaoil,
’S pailteas aodaich ri ’crannaibh.
Chuireadh aghaidh an ròiseil,
Ri long mhòr an tombaca,
’S mu ’n gann a chnagadh tu cnò,
Gu ’n robh an seòladair glacta!

’S gu’n robh sinn uile air tràsgadh,
Eadar spàirn agus aighear,
’S dh’ fhas sinn cuideachdail, càirdeil,
’Nuair ’chaidh am branndaidh air ghabhail;
’S tràth ’chaidh sinn gu drìongam,
B’ àrd a chluinntear cuid sgallais.
’S bhuail a’ ghrian anns an drùim mis’,
Mu ’n do chuimhnich mi ’n dorus!<eng>


LXXVI.

Quite a number of ditties under this section belong to home and home affairs. In a light bantering vein—from pure gaieté du cœur,—familiar matters of every-day life are touched upon, and persons, places, and events, are made subjects of harmless raillery. Here we have a waggish good-man upbraiding his spouse. It often happened that

[TD 126]

in humble life, husbands, who were men devoted to their wives, usually spoke to them, in public, in a jocular vein, which was, however, perfectly understood.

<gai>Dé ni mi gun léine ghlain,
Gun léine ghlain, gun léine ghlain;
Dé ni mi gun léine ghlain,
’S mi dol as a’ bhaile màireach.

Tha tigh agam, tha bean agam,
’S an bùrn aig ceann an tigh agam,
Tha punnd do shiabunn geal agam,
Is léine shalach ghnàd’ orm.

’Nuair thug mi dhi gu nigheadh i,
’S ann thòisich i ri bruidhinn rium;
’S an uair a fhuair mi rithist i,
Bu mhios’ i na mar bha i.

Bidh ’h-uile fear a’ farraid rium,
’Farraid am beil bean agam,
’Farraid am beil bean agam,
Is leine shalach ghnàd’ orm.<eng>


LXXVII.

In this case it is not the wife, but the croft that is animadverted upon in jest. The small plots of poor soil, now run wild, that were considered worth cultivation in former times, may afford food for reflection to the philosophic mind. Among the cottars and small crofters, the wolf, alas! was always at the door. But privation was of old as a “touch of nature,” making the people “wondrous kind” to each other.


[TD 127]

<gai>Goirtean nam Broighleag!
Sgiot e mo theaghlach,
Chuir e mo chòinneamh,
B’ fhaide na ’m iùl.
Dh’ fhalbh an damh bàn,
’S dh’ fhalbh an damh riabhach;
Dh’ falbh iad uile,
Bho ’n theirig am biadh dhaibh.
Goirtean na dunaich!
Dar chunnaic mi riamh e,
Goirtean nam Broighleag,
Thachair e rium.

Goirtean nam Broighleag!
Agus Fear Eadarais, (1)
Thachair iad rium,
’S gun thachair mo sheic rium.
Dh’ fhalbh an t-each ban
’Dhianadh an ùir dhomh;
Mairi a baile,
’S e dhianadh a giùlan.
Goirtean na dunaich! etc.<eng>


LXXVIII.

The rats and mice which infested Highland homesteads, were supposed to be particularly susceptible to bardic satire. That is to say, they could


(1) Although the derivation of this place-name is popularly given as <gai>eadar da eas,<eng> i.e. “between two falls,” it is much more probably <gai>eadar rais,<eng> i.e. “between the woods.” Close beside it is <gai>Fodha rais,<eng> i.e. “under the woods.” This name has been changed to Phoness in English. In the terrible year 1806, when the ancient inhabitants of Phoness, Etteridge, and adjoining townships were evicted, it was said that the leaves on these birch woods withered before mid-summer.


[TD 128]

not endure it. The most audacious and persistent mouse quailed under a sarcastic rhyme, and hurriedly made tracks for pastures new. The sprightly effusion here given contains nothing very scathing. In my note book it is entitled,—<gai>“Aoireadh, le Alasdair Catanach, an Saor Ruadh, anns a’ Chreagan, ’n uair bha e fuadach nan luch bho sabhal Bhiallaid,”<eng> i.e., “A satire by Alexander Cattanach, the red-haired carpenter, when he was driving the mice out of Biallid barn.” While banishing the unwelcome tribe to Drumuachdar, he condescends to wheedle them with promises of luxuries there in store!—

<gai>Ma ghabhas sibh mo comhairl’, luchan!
Truisidh sibh oirbh ’s bidh sibh falbh.
Ma théid mise ’ga n-ur aoireadh,
Cha bhi aon agaibh gun chearb.
Cha’n ’eil cat eadar Ruathainn,
’S bràigh Chluainidh nach bi sealg.
’S ann an sabhal Sandy Bàn,
Gheàrr sibh an snàth as a’ bhalg.

’N sin dar thubhairt an luch mhòr ’s i ’freagairt,
“Stad beag ort, a shaoidh òig;
’S eagal leam gun gabh thu mìothlachd,
Rinn mi dì-chiumhn’ ann am fhròig.
’S peacach dhuit mo chuir a balla,
’S cur is cathadh ri mo shròin;
’S mi gun fhios a’m ceana théid mi,—
’S ioma beum a gheibh mo sheòrs.”

Innsidh mis’ dhuit ceana théid sibh,
’S ioma gleus tha air a bhòrd.
Ruigibh am fear mòr ’san Spideal, (1)
’S gheibh sibh liocair ann gu leòr.<eng>


(1) Dalnaspidal. There was a hospice, or hospital, here in ancient times for the reception of travellers crossing the wilds of Drumochter.

[TD 129]

<gai>Ithibh ’s òlaibh n-ur teann-shath,
Ged a ghearradh sibh ’chuid bhròg;
Dhiùlt e dhomh oidhch’ mo dhìnneir,
Ged a phàidhinn gini òir.

Gabhaidh sibh ’n rathad air n-ur athais,
Bidh sibh ’n ath òidhch’ an Gleann-Truim.
Tur ruigidh sibh clobhs’ Dail-Chuinnimh, (1)
’S ann an sud bhios an cruinneachadh grinn.
’H-uile té le dronnag-eallaich,
An déidh dealachdainn rium fhìn;
’Dol a shealltuinn an fhir ghallda,
’Chuir cuid Ailein gu dìth.<eng>


LXXIX.

This satire was composed by Lachlan Macpherson of Strathmashie—Fear Srath Mhathaisidh, and is in his most characteristic style.

The landlord of the stage-house at Dunkeld, named Johnstone, had, somehow, given dire offence to the bard, who, after some moralising upon the ways of the world, summons an army of mice to effect the ruin of the unfortunate Boniface, by eating him out of house and home.

<gai>Is iomadh truaigh’ a tha cumail fodha
An tuathanaich is fhearr air domhan;
Air meud a bhuana ’s a threabhaidh,
’S lìonmhor tuarasdal ’n a dhéigh.<eng>


(1) The court in front of the stage-house of Dalwhinnie. “Are you the man who keeps this house?” asked a traveller on one occasion of mine host, who was strutting about pompously here, according to his wont. “No,” was the curt reply, “This house keeps me.”


[TD 130]

<gai>Ol, agus ceòl, agus féill,
Baisteadh, is pòsadh, is eug,
Righ, agus eaglais, is léigh,
’S mìle rud beag as a dhéigh.

Madadh, is meirleach, is aoidh,
Famh, agus earrachall, is dàimh,
Maighstir, muinntearas, clainn,—
Feuch gu ’n cunnt thu air a’ mhnaoi.

Cha ’n urrainn mi ’n innseadh gu léir
Ach stadaidh mi aig aon éisg,—
’S i luch phrabach a’ bheòil ghéir,
Pòr is bradaiche fo ’n ghréin.

Tha ’n saoghal air dol as a sheòl,
’S gach beathach is dona gu leòm,
’N uair bhiodh luch phrabach nam fròg
Comaidh ris gach òlach còir.

Cia mar thug iad spéis do phòit—
Biasdan gun airgiod, gun òr,
A dh’ òladh an sinnsear an lòn
Ged bhiodh an righ aig a’ bhòrd.

Fear Dail na Ceardaich (1) so thall,
Thug iad a thigh thar a cheann,
Gach gleus is uaisle a th’ ann,
Am fìon, a bheòir, is an dram.<eng>


(1) Some of the stage-houses southward of Kingussie have been introduced into the rhyme that tells of the progress of a certain wedding party,—

<gai>Bracbhaist am Baile-Chloichridh,
<eng>Lunch<gai> an Dail-na-Ceardaich,
Dinneir an Dail-Chuinnidh,
’S a’ bhanais ann an Ràt.<eng>

Breakfast in Pitlochry,
Lunch in Dalnacardoch,
Dinner in Dalwhinnie,
And the wedding in Raitts.


[TD 131]

<gai>Ach tha mi ’g àithn’ oirbh uile gu léir,
Bhur n-òigridh, ’s bhur sinnsear ’n ’ur déigh,
O ’n chuir sibh mo chairdean a feum,
Fàgaibh am bail’ aca féin.

Gabhaibh an rathad is fearr,
Srath Athol, ’s bhur casan cho gearr,
’S ma theirgeas an latha mu Bhlàir,
’S ro mhaith ’n t-àit a ghabhail tàimh.

O ’n fhuair sibh bhur cleachdadh ’s a’ chùirt,
Ruigidh sibh caisteal an Diùic,
Gheibh sibh macnus ann is mùirn
’S deicidh seachdnar anns gach rùm.

Caithibh an oidhch’ as a ceann,
An ròbann, an leumnaich, ’s an danns’,
’S ged dh’ òladh na béisdean na th’ ann,
’S urrainn e-féin anns a’ chall.

Falbhaibh as gle mhoch, ’s e ’s maith leam,
Mar tha ’m <eng>Pass<gai> ri leth-taobh Gairidh,
’S bidh sibh ’n oidhche sin ro-mhaith
Shìos aig Seonstanach Dùn-Chaillinn.

Fanaibh ann bliadhna no dhà,
Gu ’r fàgail lìonmhor le àl,
’S na dealaicheadh sìolag ri càch,
Gu sìorruidh, mur iarr mis’ e.

Tha mi air sian oirbh ’n a thràth,
Na biodh biadh, no deoch, no snàth,
Lìon-anart, no plaide bhàn,
Anns nach feuch sibh meud bhur càil.

Ithibh, is òlaibh, is gearraibh
Gach aodach, gach brogan, ’s gach anart,
Taomaibh gach stòp anns gach glaine,
’S fàgaidh sin maodal an òlaich ni ’s taine.


[TD 132]

Bithibh mar chàdaidh o ’n sgoil,
’S na sguiribh gu brath gun bhur toil;
Bàs air an fhear leis am b’ oil,
Cha b’ e-féin ach spliug a’ choin.<eng>


LXXX.

The <gai>Saor Ruadh<eng> once upon a time having got the loan of a horse from Lachlan Mackenzie, <gai>am post ban<eng> (1)—a far-seeing man who refused to accompany the Black Officer to Gaick on the plea of illness—after bringing home a heavy load of deals with the help of the good grey <gai>gearran,<eng> thus expressed his approbation of that plucky creature’s exertions on his behalf.

<gai>Eich ghuirm bha ’n Allt-Làraidh,
’S ioma ait eile bhàrr air,
Gur fheàirde mis’ an làd,
Thug thu ’n àirde dhomh gun chùnntadh.

O! théid mi dhachaidh leat,
’S bu bheud sud mur tachradh e,
A’ shealltuinn air Lachlann,
A mhic a chapuill shunndaich!

Ged chuirinn ceithir dusan ort,
Na ’n càirinn iad ’s gun trusainn iad,
Gun siùbhladh tu gu h-uchdarach,
’S an cuip cha bhiodh tu ’g ionndrain.

Gur mise bhitheas brònach,
’Nuair chluinneas mi nach beò thu,
Cha toir mi ’choin na Sròin’ thu,
Théid cisd nam bòrd mu ’m chùrsan.<eng>


(1) The fair-haired postman.


[TD 133]

<gai>Ged thubhairt am Post Bàn riut—
Bho ’n ’s è ainm a thuigeas càch e:
De Clanna Choinnich tha thu,
’S bì Sàlaich ort a’ cunntadh.<eng>


LXXXI.

A crapulous age has left its traces in Gaelic poetry as elsewhere. But it was long before the bards would condescend to mention in their verses any less gentlemanly potion than the red wine of France. It is now perhaps impossible to discover when it was that whisky fairly ousted wine and ale from popular favour in the Highlands. We know that smuggling—i.e., illicit distillation—became general among tacksmen, crofters, and cottars. The bothie was a mystic shrine of Bacchus—the “black pot” his symbol. The vessels, great and small, from the cask to the glass, utilised in connection with the exhilarating nectar, were each regarded as a sort of fetish. In this ditty, the <gai>poit-dubh<eng> is addressed as a bride. The scene is in the neighbourhood of Garvamore. We are afforded a peep at the “still” in full operation. The stream of cold water flows freely over the pipes, and the assembled company watch the proceedings, not without shadowy thoughts of Nemesis, in the person of the Exciseman—am Belleach.

<gai>Bean na bainnse, hò! hì!
Hathaill ù! hathaill ò!
’S i bean og a’ chùil duinn,
Bidh na suinn leat ag òl.


[TD 134]

Tha ’bhean-òg ann an cùil,
Fàile cùbhraidh bho ’stròn.
Cha ’n eil gàidsear fo ’n chrùn.
Nach bi dlùth air a tòir.

Thig am Belleach mu ’n cuairt,
Gheibh e ’m bruaich a’ bhean òg;
Bheir e ’n <eng>collar<gai> dhi ’s a chuairt,
Falbhaidh buannachd an stòip.

Nam faiceadh sibh-s’ Iain Bàn, (1)
Botul làn ann a dhòrn,
Cha ’n eil fear thig mu ’n cuairt,
Nach fhaigh cuach thar a’ chòir.

Tha ’bhean-òg air a’ chuan,
Sruth mu ’guaillean gu leòir,
Cha ’n eil gàidsear fo ’n chrùn,
Nach bi null air a tòir.

Ge mòr agaibhs’ an <eng>tea<gai>,
B’ ait leam fhìn a’ bhi ’g òl
Glain do ’n gharbh-ghucaig mhìn,
Thogadh m’ inntinn bho bhròn.

Fear a’ Gharbha so shuas,
Chuir air chuan a’ bhean òg.<eng>


LXXXII.

A busy miller plying his work, upstairs and downstairs and out and in, may be heard grumbling and humming throughout these strains, wherein one seems to hear, too, the noise of the clapper, the pour of the water, and the creaking of the old machinery.

<gai>Hóró nó! is hìrì mobha!
Hóró nó! is hìrì mùgh! &c.<eng>


(1) John Macdonald, Garvamore, of whom elsewhere.


[TD 135]

<gai>Tha ’ghaoth mhór air an uinneig,
Leam is coma co dhiùbh,
Ged a bheireadh i leatha,
Grùid loibheach dhubh nach fiù,—

Eadar chais’ agus acfhuinn,
Eadar amar agus bùrn,
Eadar draghaid agus claban,
Agus chlachan agus chlùd.

Ach na ’n tigeadh an Samhradh.
Gu ’n rachainn-sa air m’ iùl,
Do thalamh Mhic-Dhomhnuill,
Gheall e dhomh-sa muileann ùr.

Far am faighte na mnathan,
Air a’ bhraigheann gu dlùth,
Far am faight’ am bonnach gradain, (1)
’S ìm an taice ri ’thaobh.<eng>


LXXXIII.

This animated duologue took place between two worthies of the Clan Vurich. It is only necessary to add that the Mr Blair mentioned was minister of Kingussie for the greater part of the eighteenth century.


(1) It used to be said that the bonnach-gradain could be prepared by one woman while another was cooking a pot of potatoes. This is the recipe for making it:—Hold a sheaf of corn over the flame for a few minutes; then shake the grain into an empty heated pot set near the fire, and stir briskly to keep it from burning. When sufficiently hardened, pass it hurriedly through the quern; the meal is then ready for immediate use. <gai>“Min-ghradain,”<eng> thus procured, was reckoned a delicacy. A small handful of it in a dish of whisked cream would alone be acceptable as an excellent diet.


[TD 136]

<gai>Hó! Calum Figheadair,
Le ’leannanan ’s le ’nigheanan,
Hó! Calum Figheadair,
Tha mì-altradh an dàn da.

“Dh’ fhighinn-se mar dh’ fhuaghaila’ tu,’
Thubhairt Calum Figheadair;
“Dh’ fhuaghailinn-se mar dh’ fhigheadh tu,
Thubhairt Calum Tàillear.

“’S mise Calum ’s fhearr tha ann,”
Thubhairt Calum Figheadair;
“Tha thu briagach anns a cheann,”
Thubhairt Calum Tàillear.

“Gheibh mi bean bho Mr Blàir,”
Thubhairt Calum Figheadair;
“’N i chaileag air am beil an spàg?”
Thubhairt Calum Tàillear.

“’S ioma Calum tha sinn ann,”
Thubhairt Calum Figheadair;
“Calum dubh is Calum càm.”
Thubhairt Calum Tàillear.’<eng>


LXXXIV.

Miss Barbara Macpherson of Ralia, a witty spinster of good family, composed this jeu d’ esprit when fulling a certain web of cloth towards the end of the eighteenth century. It is probable that she often altered it subsequently to suit the circumstances of the moment. I took these verses down from one who had been in the service of the merry old lady.

<gai>Mo chlòlan dubh, a thaobh! a hù!
Chan ’eil e tiugh ’s tha fallus air.
Mo chlòlan dubh, a thaobh! a hó.


[TD 137]

’N uair bhios mo chlòlan, fighte, luaidhte,
Gheibh Fear Chluainidh (1) falluinn dhe.

Bheir sinn pairt deth do Dhiuc Gordan,— (2)
’S math an t-oighre fearainn e.

Tha fear-taca Ghasga-mhóir, (3)
An ro-gheall air earrann dhe.

Bheir sinn còt’ dha Caiptean Clàrc (4) dhe,
Bho ’n tha gradh nan caileag dha.

Bheir sinn deis’ dha Caiptean Bhiallaid, (5)
Ged bhiodh sianar falamh dhe.<eng>


(1) Her relative, Colonel Duncan Macpherson of Cluny.

(2) Alexander, Duke of Gordon, one of the most popular land-lords of his day.

(3) Archibald Macdonald, Gilleasp Mac Ailein, who was a well-known cattle-dealer. He was the father of <gai>Othaichear na Cùile<eng>—Lieut. Col. Ranald Macdonald.

(4) Captain Alexander Clark of Invernahaven, and afterwards of Dalnavert. His father, John Clark, a native of Dell, who was sister’s son to Ewen Macpherson of Ralia, resided at Knappach, where he conducted an extensive business as a general merchant, eventually becoming baron-bailie to the Duke. He was succeeded in his business and office by Mr Allan Macpherson, his brother-in-law, who was uncle of the late “Old Banker.” John Clark, or <gai>Am Baillidh Bàn<eng>—the Fair-haired Baillie, as he was called—married one of Ossian Macpherson’s sisters, who was, of course, his own cousin. Captain Alex. Clark acted for some time as factor for his uncle, James Macpherson. He married Miss Shaw of Dalnavert, who was the aunt of Sir John Macdonald, the Premier of Canada; and his sons, who became distinguished officers, were regarded as among the most handsome men in the British army. Old Malcolm Clark, the fox-hunter—<gai>Calum Brócair<eng>—informed me that the Clarks had resided in the neighbourhood of Killihuntly for five hundred years.

(5) Lieutenant—or, to be polite—Captain Alexander Macpherson, was known as <gai>An t-Othaichear Bàn.<eng> He died in 1790 under distressing circumstances.


[TD 138]

<gai>’S bheir mi còt’ dha Robaidh Bhiallaid, (1)
’G a fhiachainn anns a’ Ghearrasdan.

Chuirinn earrann thar a’ chuan, (2)
Gu daoin’-uails’ a dhealaich ruin.

Bheir sinn briogais dha na Ghreumach, (3)
A righ féin! gu ’m meal e i.

Ach cha teid snathainn gu Noid-mhóir dhe, (4)
Gus an geall e banais dhuinn.

Fear an Lagain, ’s duine còir e, (5)
Ach gabh-s’ an clò ni Ealasaid.

Tha daoin’-uailse an Dun-Eidinn, (6,7)
Bhios dhéigh-laimh ma dh’ fhanas iad.<eng>


(1) Lieutenant Robert Campbell Macpherson, son of the <gai>Othaichear Bàn,<eng> died in 1789.

(2) Several members of the Nuide Family, to which Miss Barbara Macpherson belonged, emigrated to America.

(3) The tacksman of Banchor, who, it may be inferred, was a Lowlander.

(4) Her relative. Captain Duncan Macpherson, tacksman of Nuide, who stood in need of advice on the subject of matrimony.

(5) His wife had separated from him. Ealasaid was an old housekeeper. Towards the close of his life he induced his better half to return.

(6, 7) Her brother, Lachlan Macpherson, the notable Fear an Rath-Léith, and Mr Evan Clark, Nessintully, i.e., <gai>Nios-an-Tulaich.<eng> The latter was a brother of the Baillidh Bàn of Ruthven, and, like his neighbour and cousin, the tacksman of Ralia, engaged in cattle-dealing on an extensive scale. But the same good fortune did not attend upon his enterprise. Among his descendants are Macpherson of Corriemony, Stewart of Brin, and Mr D. Guthrie, K.C., Canada. His wife was a relative of the late Field-Marshal Sir Patrick Grant.


[TD 139]

LXXXV.

At Ralia was a school which supplied the district on both sides Spey, extending from <gai>Allt Làraidh<eng> to the head of Glen Banchor, and from Little Nuide to Glen Truim and <gai>Preas-Mucrach.<eng> It was conducted by an old man, who taught the young idea how to shoot in a turf hut. Six score cholars attended, each being charged two shillings per quarter. The father of my informant was a miller, and paid fees for his family in meal. Many, however, paid nothing. A few of the boys used to be sent out now and again to the woods to gather sticks for fuel. When children appeared in the morning very dirty and unkempt, the schoolmaster would ridicule them, spit upon their heads, and send them home. One family having attained an undesirable notoriety in this respect, a witty urchin indulged in the following jeu d’ esprit at their expense. The heroic cast into which this is thrown is very amusing, considering the occasion.

<gai>Tha teaghlach òg a tha mi chliùiteach,
’S duilich leam, ’s an dü’ich ri ràite;
Gum beil iad de Chlann Mhuirich,
Choisinn urram ann ’sna blàraibh;
Bha iad treun bhualadh bhuillean,
Anns gach cunnart is buaidh-làrach,
Leis an t-sròl-bhrataich uain’ tha ’n Cluainidh,
Nach do ghabh an ruaig roimh namhaid.<eng>


LXXXVI.

One afternoon, Domh’ll Phàil left his flock on the hill and came to help the Ballachroan servants who were coiling hay. To enliven the company, he


[TD 140]

improvised this ditty in celebration of one of the hay-makers—a young damsel who had been engaged for the Harvest. Forgotten probably by everybody besides, she treasured in her memory, and sang these verses to me some three score years afterwards with evident pride.

<gai>I ri ì so, raithill o,
Raithill o, raithill o;
I ri ì so, raithill o,
Mo nighean donn is boidhche.

’S i mo chaileags’ caileag Noid,
Far am bi i cha bhi sprochd;
’S fhearr leam i na té le stoc,
Cha ’n eil i crosd no beumach.

Tha mo chaileags’ laghach ciùin,
Bios i agam air mo ghlùn;
’S math mo bharail is mo dhùil,
Nach dean mo rùn mo threigsinn.

Ged ’s fhad bho ’n thainig mi ’n taobh tuath,
Dearbh cha ’n fhac mi ann mo luaidh,
Gus an d’ thainig ’chaileag shuairc,
Nall thar bruaichean Spé oirnn.

’S fearr leam thu na Peigi bhàn,
Ged is ainmeil i aig càch;
Cha toir mise dh’ i mo ghràdh,
Ged ’s mòr tha ’n dràsd an déidh oirr’.<eng>


LXXXVII.

Here is another lay of quite the same description as the foregoing, lilted by some light-hearted mortal.

[TD 141]

<gai>Thogainn fonn air an ni ’n duibh,
Thaothaill hó! thaothaill thog thu!
Thogainn fonn, etc.

’S trice bha mi leat ’sa bhàthaich,
Is sneachda bàn fo shàilean a’ chruidh.

’S trice bha mi leat ’san luachair,
’Na mo bhuachaill cuallach a chruidh.

Ach mar fhaigh mi thu ri d’ iarraidh,
Theid mi ’m bliadhna mach air a’ mhuir.

Ach mar fhaigh mi thu ri phòsadh,
Theid an fhòid a chuir air mo mhuin,

Nì’n dubh, nì’n dubh, nì’n dubh bhòidheach,
B’e mo rùn do phosadh an diugh.<eng>


LXXXVIII.

How many blithesome and witty Highland spinsters have been possessed with the happy faculty of creating laughter and fun in whatever company they might find themselves, who spent their lives in wee bothies that hardly sheltered them from the wind and rain, subsisting on the humblest fare. The following is one of numberless rhymes that an ancient glee-maiden of this character would sing at a merry-making.

<gai>Hè! hó! hì! ùr! ibh! ì!
Hè! hó! hi! ùr! a bhagaich!

Nàile! ’s mise tha gu cràiteach,
’S mi bhi màireach dol a’ phòsadh.

’S mi bhi maireach dol a’ phòsadh
Mac a’ bhodaichein bhig, bhrònaich.


[TD 142]

Mac a’ bhodaichein bhig, bhrònaich,
’S nach dean seich ’n eich mhòir dha brogan.

Nach dean seich ’n eich mhòir dha brogan,
’S nach dean dà shlait dheug dha còta.

Nach dean dà shlait dheug dha còta,
’S feusag air cho fad ri sguab eòrna. etc., etc.<eng>


LXXXIX.

<gai>A Bhanais Bhàn<eng> (1) was celebrated at Maccoul—Pac-ulla, as the bard has it—in a neighbourhood where there used to be a considerable population. The marriage was one of convenience, taking place between a couple well up in years, and in comfortable circumstances. Among the wedding-guests was the facetious tacksman of Strathmashie, whose sense of humour was hugely tickled by the fact that the whole company were grey-haired. We can imagine the gusto with which our bard addressed himself to the composition of this epithalamium in which the gaieties of an assemblage of fogies, are burlesqued with irresistible fun. Iain Dubh Macpherson, wadsetter of Maccoul, was married thrice, one of his wives being a sister of Strathmashie.

<gai>Mo rùn air a’ chomunn ud,
Cho somolta, neo-thomadach,
Mo dhùrachd do ’n chomunn ud,
Gun bhó gun bholla gann daibh.

An cuala’ sibhs’ a bhanais bhàn
Bh’ aig Eobhan Mac Dhughaill Dì-mairt
Ann am Pac-ulla gu h-àrd,
Aig na thràigh iad àngar.<eng>


(1) The White Wedding.


[TD 143]

<gai>’N uair a thàinig iad a nìos,
Rinn iad achanaich ri Brian,
Iad a bhi uile cho liath
Ri ciabhag fhir na bainnse.

Labhair fear na bainnse fhéin,
“Tha dath airgid oirn’ gu léir,
Ciod an cron tha oirn’ fo ’n ghréin,
Mar dean fear-beurra rann oirn’?”

Thuirt Pàdruig Mac Mhuirich gu fòil,
“Agam-sa tha ’bhratach shròil,
Is mar sguir am bard d’ a sgleò,
Mar tha mi beò theid sreang air.”

Labhair an cléireach gu dàn’,
“Agam-sa tha ceart thar chàch,
Theid am ministeir a’ m’ phàirt,
’S gu ’n teid am bard ’s a phrangas.”

Thuirt fear bu dàn’ na càch,
“Agam cha ’n eil spéis d’ ’ur dàin,
Eiribh ’s cuimt’ an t-úrlar blàth
’S gu ’n lìon mo lamh-sa dràm dhuibh.”

Dh’ éirich iad uil’ cho bras,
’S ann an sud bha farum chas,
Mar gu ’m biodh an trùp ghlas (1)
A’ dol am baiteal Frangach.

Cha di-chuimhnich mi gu bràth,
Gus an téid mi anns an làr,
Comunn ciar-dubh glas mo ghràidh,
A bha ’s an tràth so damhsadh.<eng>


(1) The Horse Greys.


[TD 144]

XC.

Long ago there dwelt beside the Spey, a damsel of such surpassing beauty, that her charms were proclaimed everywhere from the Toll-house to Castle Gordon. The Duchess Jane is represented as recommending the Marquis of Huntly to make her his own, and to give her a fine horse on which she might ride to church on Sunday. John of the Toll is equally enthusiastic in her praise.

<gai>Thuirt ’Bhan-Diùc ris a’ Mharcais,
“’Mhorair Seòras! thoir leat i,
’Chaileag bhòidheach, do ’n Chaisteal;
Thoir each mòr dh’ i g’a mharcachd
’An t-searmoin.

Labhair Iain an Tòil,
“Sud a’ chaileag is bòidhch’
Eadar Uithisd is Cnoideart,
Amail-ruighe ’s Gleann Lòchaidh;
Ni sinn suidh’, is gu ’n òl sinn
’Deoch-slàinte.<eng>


XCI.

Who has not heard of Bantrach Bhuidhe na Stròine—the Fair-haired Widow of Strone—who was such a celebrated toast in her day? Among her host of admirers, Callum Dubh nam Protaigean affects to take his place, proclaiming himself severely smitten by her charms. Unless the Rev. Mr Blair could arrange matters satisfactorily, the poor bard asks of his friends nothing more than a grave.


[TD 145]

<gai>Tha leann-dubh orm air tàmh,
’S air mo ghruaidhean tha ’bhlàth gu tric,
Dianaibh uaigh bhàn dhomh,
Cha ’n eil uair gu tàmh an so nis;
Dh’ easbhuidh d’ fhaodainn air laimh,
Agus facal a’ Bhlàirich (1) bhi ris,
Gur e ’s furtachd am bàs dhomh,
Mur cuidich thu ’n airde mi nis.

Ach nan tàrlainn ’s tigh-leanna,
Bhiodh deoch-slàinnte mo chaileig air bord;
Ged a chosdadh i gearran,
An làin’ bhios ’s a ghlaine ri òl.
Ged is dàn e ri labhairt,
An seachdamh fàinn’ chuirinn tharais mar cheò,
Chionn gu ’n tàrlainn ’s a’ ghleannan,
Ris a bhantraich tha thall ud ’s an t-Sròin.<eng>


XCII.

Callum Dubh composed this whimsical lilt, with reference to the maiden who afterwards became his wife.

<gai>Shìne dhonn agam fhìn,
Tha mi trom a do dhéidh;
Bidh mo shùil anns gach àit,
Dh’ fheuch co dha bheir thu spéis

Ma ’s e fìgheadair do rùn,
’S gur ann air tha do shùil;
Feuch nach pòs thu fear breun
Chumas deur air do shùil.<eng>


(1) Rev. William Blair, minister of Kingussie, 1724-1788.

[TD 146]

<gai>Cha ’n eil càs idir ann,
Ged robh càch oirnn gann;
Gheibh sinn fearann ri nar beò
Bho Dhiùc Gordan air gleann.

Thuirt luchd mìo-rùn sud rium,
Nach bu ghìomanach mi,
Mur marbhainn an damh crìon
Bhios ’s an lìon air mo dhruim.<eng>


XCIII.

When a young man had arranged to get married, he set about to collect the necessary outfit, or trousseau—which means just <gai>trusadh.<eng> (1) With this purpose in view, he proceeded upon what was known as the Faoighe-fhaoghair, to give his neighbours an opportunity, in accordance with the custom of the time, of bestowing upon him such gifts and gear, as might enable him to set up in life as a householder and married man. Some one burlesqued the custom, as we see:—

<gai>“Theid mi air an Fhaoighe-fhaoghair,”
Arsa Giorral Ghingeam.
“Le ’m each, le ’m ghille, is le ’m theadhair.”
Arsa Giorral Ghingeam.
“Gheibh mi adag as a’ ceithir.”
Arsa Giorral Ghingeam.
“’S bheir na mnathan dhomh an t-ìm.”
Arsa Giorral Ghingeam.
“Mar sud is an càis cruinn buidhe.”
Arsa Giorral Ghingeam.<eng>

The party from whose recitation I jotted down this drollery, naively remarked that any bridegroom who got two sheaves could not complain.


(1) i.e., Gathering.


[TD 147]

XCIV.

On a certain day Miss Barbara Macpherson of Ralia formed one of a large party who sat down to dinner in her brother’s house at Breakachy. The company consisted entirely of maiden ladies, with the exception of a nephew who afterwards became a gallant officer in the army, Having been helped to the rump, the youth was called upon for a rhyme, but, for some reason, he failed to comply with what was jocularly regarded as an obligation, in that age of “sentiments.” Whereupon, his witty aunt losing all patience, gave the following impromptu at his expense;—

<gai>Is cruaidh leam rumpull reamhar a’ mhuilt,
Bhi am pluic a bhalaich gun tuigs’—
Fear gun chumadh, fear gun dealbh,
Fear gun seanachas, fear gun fuirp;
Chuir an aith-ghear mo sgial,
Is coimeas a’ bhiast do’n mhuic.<eng>

This genial old lady composed numerous songs—mournful, humorous, and satirical—now, for the most part, forgotten along with the circumstances which called them forth. It is related that she could not tolerate the notion of being asthmatic—as was the case—insisting that her chronic cough was due to “a cold.” Hence, asthma used to be spoken of as,—<gai>Cnatan Barbara Ni’ n Eoghainn, thigeadh ceithir uairean ’s a’ bhliadhna, ’s a dh’ fhuireadh ràidh ’h-uile uair thigeadh e.<eng> i.e., Barbara, daughter of Ewen’s cold, which came four times a year and always stayed a quarter. She enjoyed a pinch of snuff, and I have been told how once when in the kitchen preparing for a large dinner-party, and engaging at the same time in sprightly conversation


[TD 148] 

according to her wont, she inadvertently flung her box into a pot of good things which she had just placed on the fire. One of her brothers, known as Caiptean Anndra an Rath-léith, was also possessed with the bardic vein, and could set the table in a roar. But, Reader! imagine a rencontre between Miss Barbara of Ralia and the Tacksman of Strathmashie! The facetious old lady enjoyed the friendship of Jane Duchess of Gordon, and of Mrs Grant of Laggan.


XCV.

In this satire, usually spoken of as—<gai>“Oran an Airgid,”<eng> Fear Strath Mhathaisidh extols the influence of mammon in the affairs of the world. On the whole, we may, perhaps, regard this song as being the most successful effort of his muse.

<gai>’S is bochd ’an caramh dhaoine
’S an t-saoghal ’bhi cogadh ris,
Gur tric an cridhe gaolach,
’S fear faoilidh ’ga chrosadh ann;
’S a dh’ aindeoin meud do shaothrach,
’S tri faobhair gu cosnadh air,
Cha ’n fhiach i taing a’ chiall,
Mur ’eil meud-eiginn fortain aig’.

O! ’dh’ aindeoin misneachd, géiread, gliocas,
Eirigh briosg a’s tapachd fir,
A’s gun an t-acras ’thigh’nn cho tric,
’S tha ciataidh ’s gibht an taice ris;
Mur ’eil am beairteas mar ri sin,
An lorg an fhir cha ’n fhaicear iad,
B’ e am fortan ceann an fhéidh.
As an éireadh an cabar air.


[TD 149]

’S am fear a thàireas stòras,
Bì’dh mòran a’ feitheamh dha,
Bi’dh meas an òlaich chòir dha,
Ge b’ i ’bhròg a b’ athair dha;
Biodh e crìon no gòrach,
Ro bhòsdail no slanganach,
Ged gheibhear cronail dhomhs’ e,
Bheir òr dhàsan mathanas.

’S O! gar am faighte dheth ach facal,
’S cùirteil gasd’ a labhairt ris,
Bidh ùmhlachd thaitneach ’siuchd gu ’chasaibh,
Sùrd air glacadh làmhan ann;
Bidh mùirn a’s macnas, cùrsan blasda,
An taobh steach nan taighean dha,
’S cha chluinnt’ am piridh fhéin
Tric an déidh air na chaitheadh e.

’S am fear a rinn an t-airgiod
O ’n eannachaille fad’ aige,
’S e ’dhealbh aon léigh na h-Alba,
’S b’ e ’n cealgaire bradach e;
’S e ’ghoideadh cliù a’s ainm
Gu fear ainmhidh dh’an stadadh e;
’S a ghleadheadh fear do ’n t-seann mhnaoi
Air seargadh ’s i prab-shuileach.

B’ e sud an gaisgeach sìothchaimh ’s eas-sith,
’Strìochdadh neart nan creagan da,
Fear dearg a’s glas a dh’ fhiaras ceartas,
Sgiathach, casach, ladarna;
Gu briathrach, tart’rach, sgeulach, stràiceil,
’Mheud ’s a ghlacadh beagan dheth,
’S na’n creicteadh am bàs air féill,
Bu rud feumail gun mhagadh e.

[TD 150]

’S O! cha ’n ’eil gìomh gu chùl
Anns an ùmaidh nach leighis e;
Am fear gun chas fo ’n ghlùn air,
Bheir cùinneadh dha té-eiginn:
’S companach do ’n diùc
An seann ghrùdaire peighìnneach,
’S bheir deise dhaor o ’n bhùth
Agus cùinneadh cead suidhe dha.

O ghliongain laghaich, ’s maith gu faobhairt
Cléir’, luchd-lagha, ’s lighichean;
B’ e sud an roghainn thar gach taghadh,
’Bhuair gach aghaidh ’chitheadh e;
’S gàbhaidh greighein tha ’s a dhéidh,
Ge nach lobh ’s nach ithear e,
’S na’n gabhadh Pàrras déidh air,
Luchd-déirce cha bu bhuidhe dhoibh.<eng>


XCVI.

William Mackenzie—<gai>MacCoinnich Ghàidhig<eng>—for long head-stalker in the forest of Gaick, composed these verses on coming off victorious in a hill-race with a Sassenach champion upon whose success a wager had been laid.

<gai>A hò, ’s toigh leam; hì, gur toigh leam,
A hò, ’s toigh leam fonn a’ Ghaidheil.
’S toigh leam fhìn an fhìor dhuin’-uasal
Bhios ag éiridh suas le ardan.

Fhuair mi fios am bial na h-oidhche,
Gu’n robh maighstir Fyne (1) an Gàidhig;
Mi bhi deis gu ruith na reise—
Gu ’n robh mac a Ghaill gu ’m fhàgail.<eng>


(1) Lessee of Gaick Forest for some years.<gai>


[TD 151]

Ach nam bithinns’ ’n am ochd bliadhn’ diag,
Siubhail nan crìochan mar a b’ àbhuisd,
Chuirinn dlù ri cùl na h-iosgaid,
Fear nach labhradh smid ’na Ghàidhlig.

Chuirinn dlù ri cùl na h-iosgaid,
Fear chuir briogais riamh mu ’mhàsan;
Cha b’ e gaol an cuid tasdan,
A chuir mise ruith na spàirne;

Ach eagal mo dhùthaich faighinn masla,
’S mac an t-Sasunnaich ’g am fhàgail;
Ach eagal mo dhuthaich faighinn masla,
’S fir Lochabair chuir fo thàmailt.

Cha ’n eil comhdhail, na coinneamh,
Anns an coinnich Clann nan Gàidheal,
Nach cluinnteadh iomradh soilleir
Air MacCoinnich sin tha ’n Gàidhig.<eng>


XCVII.

John Roy Stewart, the warrior-poet of Kincardine; in this rollicking ode, ruefully acknowledges that he had too freely participated in the riotous wassail which, as commonly happened in those times, had succeeded a funeral.

<gai>Mìle marbh-phaisg air a’ ghoraich!
’S mairg a dh’ òladh branndaidh;
Lìonaidh e làn gaoith is bòsd sinn,
’S mòr a bhios do chainnt uim’;
’S ionunn sin s mar dh’ éirich dhomhsa,
Rinn mi òl ’s a ghleann so;
’S ann a leig e air mo bhuaireadh,
’S bhuail e anns a’ cheann mi.


[TD 152]

Ciod sam bi a mhathas mis’
Do dhaoine glice, còire,
Cha mhathainn ’bheag idir do bhalach,
Ged bhiodh earras mòr aig’;
Cha mhathainn ’mhac bodaich mo bhualadh,
Ged bhiodh buaile bhó aig’;
Glòir do ’n Righ tha anns a’ Chathair,
Gu ’n d’ thug E paidhir dhorn dhomh.

Cia mar dh’ fhaodainn gun dol thairis?
Lìon a’ chaile ghòrach
Tri dramachan gun fharraid,
Thairis air a’ chòir domh;
’S cha bhuidheach tha mi do na balaich,
Lìon iad làn an stòip dhomh;
Fhuair mi sud gu m’ chuir ’am chabhaig,
Agus glaine bheòireach.

Shaoil iad nach b’ urrainn mi ceartach’,
Carachadh, no tionndadh;
Ach gur math thug mis’ an aire
Do ’n chainnt bh’ aig balla ’n teampuill,
Chunnaic mi ann na mnathan,
’S tharruing mi gle theann orra;
’S e theireadh gach té dhiubh ag radh,
“’S mairg àit am bi an t-anntlachd.”

’S mairg a rachadh dh’ iarraidh cairdeis,
Pàighe, no gealltnais,
Air cuid do mhathan Chinne-Chàirdein—
’S nàir leam bhi cainnt orra;
’N uair is mò bheir mi gradh dhaibh,
B’ fhearr leo gu ’m biodh àm aca
Air sgian bhi reiteachadh mo mhionaich,
Ge milis ni iad cainnt rium.


[TD 153]

’S diombach tha mi do na mearlaich,
Mu ’n phàirt thug iad domhsa—
Mu ’n ìm thàinig air an truinnseir,
’S an fheòil shailte ròiste;
O’n bha mi fhìn ’am ghiullan nàireach,
Cha d’ fhuair mi làn mo bheòil d’ i,
Bha iadsan chuice ’n an lonaibh,
Mar gu ’m bu chonàibh mòr iad.

C’uime an dianainn fhìn an cealach?
’S ro-mhath b’ aìthne dhomhs’ iad—
Iain Ruadh Stiùbhart, mo charaid,
Ceannuich Muileann an Lòine;
’S barail leam nach do ghabh e ’n déideadh,
’S ro-mhath ’n deudach bheòil th’ aige,
Dh’ fhàg mi iad turamanaich le chéil’,
Aig Seumas Mac an Tòisich.

Hò! gur diombach a tha mise,
Air na daoine bh’ air an adhlac,
Nach do rinn iad mise ’cheangal,
’S mo sparradh ann an alltan;
No nach d’ fhag iad mi ’s tigh-sheinnse,
Glaiste ann am panntraidh,
Mu ’n do leig iad anns a’ ghaoith mi,
’S a mheud ’s bha ’chuthach cainnte.

Ach ged bhithinns’ an déigh caithris,
Teas, is fallus dannsa,
A dhaoine! a bheil sibhs’ am barail,
Ged dh’ òlainn galan branndaidh,
Gu bheil do dhaoine anns a’ bhaile,
Na chuireadh thairis mi do ’m antoil;
Ach ’s éiginn domh aideach’ a nis,
Gu ’n robh misg orm aon-uair.<eng>


[TD 154]

XCVIII.

<gai>Tigh Dhunnach an Tàilleir<eng> was a rendezvous that figures considerably in tales of social life in Badenoch during a certain period. This hostelry was situated on the <gai>Sliabh Dhubh,<eng> and consisted of a low-roofed shanty that is now represented by a more substantial building, which may be seen slightly to the right as one ascends the brae at the end of Newtonmore, next Kingussie. The narrow, undulating moor stretching westward, where by-and-bye the New Town arose, was then called the Moor of Strone.

The shrewd sayings and cunning tomfooleries of the Amphitryon of <gai>Sliabh Dhubh,<eng> used to afford abundant amusement to the denizens of the neighbourhood. Many were the artifices that he would employ with a view to detain good customers upon his premises. He liked to give a dreadful account of the weather to the company met around his fire. He has been known, at least on one occasion, with much noise of stamping of feet and shaking of garments, to enter his house, and, after carefully closing the door, exclaim:—<gai>“Is math bhi ’s tigh, a dhaoin’-uailse! is math bhi ’s tigh an nochd. Tha ’ghaoth a shìos agus an t-uisg a shuas, agus e cur nam biodag an Gleann Beannachair.”<eng> i.e., “’Tis well to be inside to-night, gentlemen, ’tis well to be inside, to-night. There is wind from the east, and rain from the west, and sowing of dirks—i.e., thickly falling snow—in Glen Banchor.”

So indefatigable and resourceful was our Boniface, that he frequently used to close up the window and chimney—no very difficult task this, however—so as to prevent the morning rays from streaming in to hasten the departure of his guests.


[TD 155]

<gai>“Fhir thug mise thun an t-saoghail! cuir traoghadh ’am chorp an nochd,”<eng> cried Captain Cattanach, when making his way home after a prolonged sitting at Dunnach an Tàilleir’s.

I think it was our old friend the <gai>Saor Ruadh<eng> who composed the following catch, after the Christmas festivities were eventually concluded, and he began to turn his attention to work:—

<gai>Dh’ fhalbh an Nollaig an dé bhuain,
Sgaoil gach comunn bho chéile,
Ach a Dhunnachaidh an t-Sléibh! tha thu brònach;

’S mithich triall le m’ chuid lochdar,
Gus am pàidh mi na chosd mi,
Cha robh ’n Nollaig ud socrach dhomh-sa.<eng>


XCIX.

<gai>Alasdair Mòr Loinn an Fhuarain<eng>—Alexander Macpherson—on a sultry summer day, had been sent on a hurried message to Craig Odhar Bothie, at the back of the <gai>Creag Mhòr.<eng> He arrived, sweltering with the heat, only in time to find that those whom he wished to see had left shortly before. Being made aware of the course they had taken, he immediately set out in pursuit, but, as ill-luck would have it, again and again he just missed them by arriving at each place a few minutes after they had departed. Finally, giving up the chase, he gave expression to his irritation in these lines:—

<gai>Dhìrich mi an t-aonach suas,
Air Meall na Gearr-ath chuir mi chuairt,
’S ged a shiùbhlainn gu Di-luain,
Mo thruaigh! cha dianainn tachairt orra.


[TD 156]

’S tigh a Chùil-ath ghabh mi suas,
Gus an d’ rain’ mi Glaic na h-Uails’,
’S bhòidich mi gu tioram, cruaidh,
’S e ’n truaigh chuir do ’n talamh-s’ mi.<eng>


C.

A certain tacksman, who frequently came home from forgatherings of one kind or another bearing evident signs that he had been in company, used on such occasions to chaff his excellent goodwife—whose virtues he fully appreciated—by repeating this amusing rhyme.

<gai>’S mise Domh’ll dichiollach,
Mac Dho’ill oidhirpich,
Phòs Annag ghòrach,
Nighean Chaluim aimidich.<eng>


CI.

In this lightsome ode, Domh’ll Phàill proves that he had drunk of the true Pierian spring, and that he was possessed with poetic genius which, if more frequently exercised, would have placed his name high among the bards. There is something Horatian in the graceful turns of thought, and sparkling fun, which these silvery quatrains display.

Peggy Stewart, who belonged to Milton of Banchor, was a servant at Balachroan, when Domh’ll Phàil immortalised her in song. Several of the swains who are represented as being enamoured of her charms, I knew as grey-haired seniors. Along with all their generation, they have passed away.


[TD 157]

<gai>A Pheigidh bhàn o’n tha thu laghach,
’Pheigidh bhàn o’n tha thu grinn,
’Pheigidh bhàn o’n tha thu briagha,
Bi’dh tu ’m bliadhna ann ad mhnaoi.

Am feasgar Sàbaid bha sinn còmhladh,
Chuir iad ’an òrdugh dhòmhs’ na suinn,
Gu’n robh ochdnar dhiùbh ’g ad iarraidh,
’S thoir leam fhìn gur briagh an t-sùim.

Gu bheil breabair ruadh na Sròine
’Giarraidh còir ort-sa mar mhnaoi,
’S mòr gu ’m b’ fhearr dhuit Donnachadh
Dhòmhnuill,
Chuireadh dòigh air eich ’us croinn.

Gu bheil Allaidh Neill ’g ad iarraidh,
’S taighean sgléata aig’ ’tha grinn,
Ach ma bheir e suas an t-Sliabh thu,
Bi’dh sileadh dheur ann tha mi cinnt’.

Tha Iain Tòiseach, òigear suairce,
’An dùil do Bhuannachadh mar mhnaoi,
Ach ged ’s iomadh fear ’tha ’n tòir ort,
Cha ’n fhaod thu ’phòsadh ach a h-aon.

Gu bheil Dunnachadh Bàn mac Iain,
Gille cridheil ’s e ro ghrinn,
Ach ma ni thu nis e ’fhàgail,
Cha toir e ’làmh do thé a chaoidh.

Gu bheil Aonghas ruadh an clachair,
’An dùil ’ad fhacal-sa ’bhi cinnt’,
’S mòr gu ’m b’ fhearr leis ’bhi ’s an teasaich
Ma ’s e ’s nach freasdail thu e ’n tìm.

Gu bheil cìobair Noid ’an tòir ort,
Giullan stòlda, laghach, cruinn,
’S ged nach eil aig’ ach an òige,
Bhiodh e deònach leat mar mhnaoi.


[TD 158]

Tha Mac-Ilip measg na h-àireamh,
Bhios a’ tàladh Peigidh ghrinn,
Ach ’n uair ’dhùin iad air am bàthaich,
Dh’ fhàg sid esan cràiteach tinn.

’N uair a théid thu sios do ’n t-searmoin,
Tha màidseir airm a tàmh ’s an <eng>Inn,<gai>
’S ’n uair a gheibh e ’n còta-dearg air,
’S deas a dh’ fhalbhas sibh <eng>field.<gai>

Cha robh ach ochdnar tùs na bliadhna,
Bha ’g ad iarraidh-sa mar mhnaoi,
Ach a nise, tha seachd-deug ann,
Dhùblaich sud an riadh ’s an t-sùim.

Ach nam bithinn-sa cho buadhmhor,
’Us do bhuannachadh dhomh fhìn,
Bhiodh i agam air mo chluasaig,
’S bheirinn suas do Ghoidhneig i.<eng>


CII.

Some verses of Fear Shrath Mhathaisidh’s vigorous satire upon whisky-drinking, and the confused disorder which it occasioned amongst its votaries, are given below.

<gai>Fear mo ghaoil an t-uisge-beatha,
Air am bi na daoin’ a feitheamh;
’S tric a chuir e saoidh ’na laighe
Gun aon chlaidheamh ’rusgadh.

LUINNEAG.

Ciod eile chuireadh sunnd oirnn,
Mur cuireadh bean is liunn e?

’N uair chaisgeas gach sluagh am pathadh,
’S a theid mac nam buadh air ghabhail,
’S lionmhor uaisle feadh an taighe,
’S biasd nach caitheadh cùinneadh.


[TD 159]

Cha b’ e sud an comunn suarach,
’S mairg a dh’ iarradh an taobh shuas daibh.
’S iad nach cromadh thun na fuaraig,
Ged bu dual daibh ’n lùireach.

Bidh iad làn misnich is cruadail,
Gu h-aigeantach brisg ’s an tuasaid,
Chuireadh aon fhichead ’s an uair sin,
Tearlach Ruadh fo ’n chrùn duinn.

Chluinneadh fear a bhiodh gun chluais iad,
Nan deanadh luinneag is fuaim e;—
Comunn teangach, cainnteach, cuachach,
Dannsach, suairc’, neo-bhrúideil.

Comunn aoidheil, òlmhor, pàirteil,
Pògach, dòrnach srònach, gàbhaidh,
Spòrsàil, ceolmhor, cornach, gàireach,
Nach cuir càs gu smùirein.

Gar am pàighear an Fheill-Martuinn,
’S ged bhiodh uireasbhuidh air pàisdean,
Leanaidh iads’ an iocshlaint’ aghmhor,
Gus am fàg an lùths iad.

’S an uair a’ s fearr a bhios aca,
Bidh lamh air gach cuail’ is bata,
Bidh fear buailte, ’s fear ’g a thachdadh,
’S fear fo ’n casan ciùrrta.

’S ann an sin a bhios a’ chaonnag,
Fioram, farum chon is dhaoine,
Clann a rànaich, mnai ri caoineadh,
’S baobhail, crosd a’ chùirt iad.

’Sma chreideas gach fear na chual e,
’S meas’ e na thuirt Calum Ruadh rium;
’S iad na coin a bhios an uachdar,
’S bidh daoin’-uaisle mùchta.<eng>


[TD 160]

CIII.

In this moral and didactic fragment, Fear Strath-Mhathaisidh gives a philosophic view of life, strongly tinged with his characteristic vein of humour.

<gai>Tha sluagh an t-saoghail so ’n an deannaibh,
Fear a sgaoileadh ’s fear a tionail,
Fear a carnadh òir ’s ga mhùchadh,
’S fear ’cuir smùid ris ’s an tigh-leanna.

Bhuainn e, ’dhaoine, ’s gabhaibh ’n seòl e,
’Bhi ro ghlic no bhi ro ghòrach,
Leigibh dhibh e, ’s leanaibh mise;—
So agaibh a nis mo dhòigh-sa.

Gun bhi ro chaiteach no ’n am dhaolaig,
A cruinneachadh òir no ga sgaoileadh;
Ma gheibh mi biadh, tein, is earradh,
Tha mi toilichte dhe ’n t-saoghal.

’N uair ’bhuaileas an t-eug a ghath orm,
Tha mo Shlanuighear air a chathair,
’S bheir e mi cho luath do Phàrras,
’S ged b’ e righ na Spàinne m’ athair.<eng>


CIV.

This song by Lachlan Macpherson of Strathmashie was taken down by the late Dr Cameron of Brodick from Miss Ann Macpherson. It is possible that Miss Anna Shìaro, as she was commonly called, may have seen the bard. Her father was Charles Macpherson, tacksman of Shirrabeg—<gai>Fear Shìaro<eng>—and her mother was Mary, daughter of Donald Macdonald, Gollovie. Miss Ann was related to Fear-Strath-Mhathaisidh, and was herself possessed


[TD 161]

of a vein of caustic humour. On both sides of the house she was connected with a host of soldiers, including “my brother, the Major!”

These verses are in the characteristic style of Strathmashie. We can imagine the swing of his bow, with many a pause and twirl, carrying through the whimeries of the rhyme, to the infinite delight of his audience. I have been told that Fear-Strath-Mhathaisidh used to sit in the porch of his house, which still remains, and there amuse himself and others with his violin and witty rhymes.

<gai>Am boirionnach òg, thugas dòigh dh’i thar chàch,
’G a faicinn an àit air chor-eigin;
Nam bu leam o’n stòl-phòsd’ i, bheirinn lòn d’ i gu bràth,
Neas mhaireadh mo shlaint’ is m’ fhallanachd.
Thogainn taigh a réir mo staid,
Bhiodh a ’s taigh iongolta;
Leam bu toigh i bhi ’s a’ chladh
Mar gach co-lethbhreac i.

B’ fhearr leam na ’n ainnis i bhi barraicht’ thàr chàch,
Ged chosdainn cluas-fhàil ri ceannaiche.
Dh’ innsinn fhìn m’ inntinn d’ i,
Bhithinn fìor thairis d’ i,
Chaisginn strì, ghlacainn sìth,
Dheanainn nì ceanalta.
Ghabhainn an fhidheal ’s nam bitheadh e innt’,
Gu’n tugainn m’ port-danns’ bu mhath leatha dh’ i.

S cha bhiodh e gu dìlinn r’ a inns’ aig mac mna,
Gu ’m biodh droch chànran eadarainn.
Aig feabhas a nàduir, a càirdeis, ’s a blàthais,
Ged b’ e ’n duine bu mhi-nàdurra ’m Breatann e.


[TD 162]

Dar bhiodh esan ’n a bhrais,
’S a chiall ghrad bheag aige,
Bhiodh a tlachd ’g a thoirt as,
’S gu ’m bu phailt beadradh dha.

Thuirt i le sgreadachd, cha fhreagair mi ’n dràs,
Mu ’n toir mi do chàch droch theisteanas oirnn.
Tràth tharla iad somhail, ’s a shumhlaicheadh ’fhearg,
Chuireadh ise le ’sheanachas fallus air,
’G a rùsgadh an stòldachd ’s an ordugh fìor shearbh,
O’n thug am mì-shealbh dha tighinn thairis air.
Mar dean sud, aic tha fios,
Duine glic ro-mhath dheth,
’S mor bu mhios’ casadh ris
Dar bhiodh friodh conais air.
O’n b’ e ’n t-òrdugh ged bu choint’ e na tarbh,
Gu ’m biodh e le crannchur toilichte.

Tha i anabarrach suairc agus truas aic an dàimh,
Fìor shuairc anns gach àm geur-bharalach.
Ged shirteadh shìos agus shuas,
Deas is tuath ’s na ’m bheil ann,
Cha ’n fhaicteadh neach ann,
A bheir barrachd oirr.’
’S mòr an giamh, mar ’n d’ thuirt Dia,
Nach robh biadh an goireas aic’,
A feabhas ’g a dheanamh,
’S ro fhial uime i.
Ged shiùbhladh tu ’n cruinne, cha ’n fhaigh thu ann té,
’S lugha àrdan na spéis do thaghanachd.

Gruaidh dhearg a’s glan rudha, mar ubhal air crann,
Cùl buidhe, corp seang, ’s grunnd soilleir aic’,
Troidh chruinn am bròig chumhaing
Ni siubhal gun spàirn,
B’ e n’ t-iongantas anns gach cruinneach’ i.


[TD 163]

Mar eal’ air shruth, ’s geal a cruth,
’S binn a guth ’s is loinneil i.
Mar an diugh air a chuir sneachd tiugh, a broilleach geal.
Fardalan (1) goirid, suil radhairc nach mall,
’S dà chìch chorraich àrd mar lili oirr’.


(1) Fabhrad, <eng>an eyebrow.


[TD 164]

SECTION FIFTH.

SONGS OF THE CHASE.

Every Highland gentleman was understood, as a matter of course, to be a votary of St. Hubert. Hunting and fishing afforded fitting relaxation for those whose main duty it was to maintain with strong arm, the rights of their family and clan. Even the peasantry had plenty of opportunity in one way or another of indulging their natural proclivities for sport. Apparently there was abundance of game for all. This may have been partly due to the fact that sportsmen of the olden time carried guns of very inferior capacity as compared with those which the inventive genius of the nineteenth century furnished in great variety. Also, it may have been the case that a smaller quarry was regarded as sufficient sport in connection with a single expedition. This seems likely at least as regards winged game, and for reasons which are not far to seek.

In former times, the pursuit of the chase was attended with many difficulties, to tackle, to combat, and to overcome which, contributed in no small degree to the exhilarating pleasures of the day. Modern sportsmen must needs have the comforts of the Saltmarket, amidst the mountain fastnesses of the North. Luxurious mansions have


[TD 165]

consequently taken the place of the hunting bothies which sufficed for the simple needs of our ancestors, from whence a net-work of carriage-drives and bridle-paths extends through glen and over mountain and moor, enabling the wealthy lessee to reach any part of his ground comfortably in a brief space of time after breakfast. Equipped with costly and magnificent guns of the most recent make, no occasion is there now for sportsmen to devote half a day of thrilling adventure to get a few dozen yards nearer some antlered monarch of the forest.

Throughout Gaelic poetry there is constant allusion to hunting. When the Fingalian warriors were not engaged with love or war, they employed their energies in pursuit of the elk, the deer, and the wild boar. In some of the ballads preserved by the Dean of Lismore, we have charming accounts, in highly picturesque language, of hunting expeditions in which Fionn and his associates took part, in regions whose very names are instinct with the spirit of poetry. Needless to say that the noble hounds, which were indispensable for the sport, come in for due share of attention from the bards.

In Badenoch, during the much more recent times with which our Songs of the Chase are connected, each tacksman’s house would have its quota of terriers, greyhounds, and staghounds. And, cosily laid up against occasion, one might see the various paraphernalia required for sport, including guns, single and double-barrelled, fishing rods, and leistering spears. Many of the poorest abodes displayed a hereditary musket, suspended on pins under the roofing—<gai>am bachd an t-suidhe.<eng>

The pursuit of the chase entered so largely into the thoughts and every-day life of the people of


[TD 166]

Badenoch, that it claimed the attention of the muses, not merely in this section, but in almost every other class of poetry,—notably so, as will be seen, in the elegies.


CV.

Alasdair Bàn Macdonald, piper and carpenter, who resided at Lagganlia, in the parish of Alvie, was the author of this spirited hunting song. One acquainted with Braemar could no doubt identify the places mentioned.

<gai>Och! is och! mar tha mi,
’S mi ’bhi ’m aonar ’siubhal fàsaich,
’S gur e nàbuidh a chleachd mi.
’Siubhal gach stùic is cùl gach cnocain,
Clais gach allt is gleann ’gam beachdach’,
Gus an d’ fhàs mi diùbh seachd sgìth.

Mach Coire Ghunntail is stigh na Glaiseachan,
’S Creag Phàdruig, cha b’ i b’ fhasa,
Mu ’n deach mi crasgadh air a druim.
Air a cùlaobh thachair mi ’s na seòid ud,
’S iad ag ionaltradh air a’ mhòinteich,
’S le ceart deòin chaidh mi ’nan comhdhail,
Ach an còmhnaidh dol fo thuim.

Thug mi ’ghruagach mach a fasgadh,
Stùir mi i ri lagan m’ achlais’,
’S cha dubhairt mi rithe ach aon fhacal,
Dar chaidh an casan fos an ceann.
Laidh na combaich an sin còmhlath.
Gun aon agam ’ga mo chòmhnadh.
Bu mhòr mo ionntrainnse air Domhnull
’Chleachd bhi còmhlath rium ’sa bheinn.


[TD 167]

Thug mi as cho fad ’sa dh’ fhaodainn,
Leig mi ’n dà chuid ’n fhuil ’s an gaorr asd’,
Dh’fhalaich mi fo bhruaich dhubh fhraoich iad,
’S chaidh mi caol gu Tigh an Tuim.
Sheòl mi ciod bha ’n lùb mo bhreacain,
’S mi gle fheumach air mo neartach’,
’S mi gun aon dheanadh rium cnacas,
B’ fhad gu feasgair ’s mi leam fhìn.

Air dha ’bhi cromadh gu an anmoch,
Chaidh mi ’shealltuinn air m’ chuid ainmhidhean,
Ceithir eallaichean nach robh aotrom,
’S bha mo chaol-drom’ goirt nan déidh.
Ach ged tha chùis so draghail an drasda,
Bi’dh e feumail dha na pàisdean,
Ni e annlann dha ’n bhuntàta,
’S mìr na spàig dha ’n bhean ’s dhomh fhìn.

Ach nis bho’n fhuair mi dhachaidh sàbhailt,
Leis na h-eallachan rinn mo shàrach’,
Ged tha ’n croicionn dhìom ’na shàilean,
Olaidh mi deoch-slàint’ na frìth.<eng>


CVI.

In some lyrics of the chase, it is not the hunter alone who gives expression to his feelings and experiences; for the stag and he are represented as exchanging their ideas in Meliboean fashion—each arguing from his own standpoint. The stag usually recommends the pursuits of husbandry to his opponent; but, though he might have the best of the argument,—like the lamb in discourse with the wolf—he is worsted in things more vital. The main features of this kind of poetry are supplied in these fragmentary verses;—


[TD 168]

<gai>An Sealgair.

O! gur muladach mi,
’S mi ’bhi dìreadh gleannain,
’S mi ’bhi ’g amharc bhuam, thall,
Damh donn an langain,
Mar ri eilid nan stuchd,
Théid gu dlùth air ’h-eangaibh.

An Damh.

Glac an cuib ’s an crann,
’S cuir gu teann ri aran;
Tha do chrodh anns a’ ghleann—
’S ro-mhath ’n t-annlann bainne.

An Sealgair.

Ged tha mo chrodh anns a’ ghleann—
Déidh chlann, am bainne.<eng>


CVII.

This is a dramatic song by The Tacksman of Strathmashie, in the same style as the above. It was composed after Culloden, when severe Acts were in force with a view of extinguishing for ever the warlike spirit of the Clans, and to make it impossible that, under the new conditions, another rising in favour of the Stewarts could take place. Under heavy penalties, Highlanders were forbidden to carry arms, or to conceal them in house or field. To wear the Highland dress, or any part of it, rendered man or boy liable to be imprisoned for six months without bail for the first offence, and in the event of its repetition, to transportation for seven years. These Acts form the main theme of this colloquy between Fear Strath Mhathaisidh and a stag.


[TD 169]

<gai>Sealgair.

Moch ’s mi ’g éiridh ’sa mhaduinn,
Gu h-airtnealach pràmhail,
Togail a mach ris a’ mhunadh,
’S muladach a ta mi,
Gun bhi ’san éideadh a chleachd mi,
Ach mar bhaigeir Gallda;
Cha’n aithnich uiread nam fiadh mi,
’S fiadhaich leam a dh’ fhàs iad.

Fiadh.

Sin ’n uair ’labhair damh nan cabar,
Stad air d’ais mar tha thu;
Nàile! bheirinn-se ort comhairl’.
Mar choimhearsnach càirdeil;
B’ fhèarr dhuit fantail aig a’ bhaile,
’San air’ thoirt air do phàisdean,
Na bhi ’an dùil gu mealladh tu mise,
Le d’ bhrigis, mo nàire!

Sealgair.

Ge blàth an t-aodach a’ bhrigis,
Cha b’e sud a b’fheàrr leam;
B’ annsa leam am féile preasach,
Gu deas air a chàradh;
Sin ’s mo bhreacan air m’uachdar,
’Cumail fuachd nam beann dìom;
Seach slaodaire dubh do chasaig,
Crochta mu mo mhàsan.

Fiadh.

Chunnaic mise sud ort roimhe,
Ge coimheach an dràsd thu;
’S tric a thachair sinn air fuaran,
Shuas ann am Beinn Eallair;


[TD 170]

Agus a loisg thu rium do luaidhe,
Le fuaim am measg mo chàirdean;
Ach ni luchd nan còtan ruadha,
Thusa ’fhuadach as an fhàsach.

Sealgair.

’S truagh nach fhaighinn-s’ thus’ is Seòras,
Còmhlath fo ’n aon làmhach;
’S gach aon duine mòr ’san rìoghachd,
Tha ri dìteadh Thearlaich;
Gar an toimhsinn troidh thar dìsinn,
Ach mo shìth ’bhi ’m Pàrras;
Nàile! chosdainn-sa mo phearsa,
R’ur toirt dachaidh màireach.

Fiadh.

Ach cha’n fhaigh thu sinn le chéile,
’Sa bhéinn fo ’n aon làmhach;
’S ma chluinnear gu bheil thu fhéin ann,
Eighear thu ’ad mhéirleach;
Ach nam b’ aithne dhòmh-sa ’n rathad,
Rachainn gu Bruchmàri, (1)
Dh’ innse gu bheil gunna ’s breacan,
Agad-s’ ann an àite.

Sealgair.

Ach a làimh do chluais a’ ghealtair,
Stad air d’ ais mar tha thu;
Ma leigeas mi riut mo chuilein,
Cha ’n urrainn thu ’ga fhàgail;<eng>


(1) A name given at one period to Fort-William, which has enjoyed a variety of designations—Mary Burgh, Gordon’s Burgh, Duncan’s Burgh, etc. Throughout Lochaber it was usually spoken of as <gai>An Gearasdan,<eng> or, <gai>Gearasdan Dubh Inbhir Lòchaidh.<eng> i.e., The Garrison, or, The Black Garrison of Inverlochy.


[TD 171]

<gai>Thug mi ’n éigh ris a’ ghille,
Leig an Nibheis bhàn ris;
’S cha do mheall i mi ’am bharail,
Ghrad chuir i gu bàs e.<eng>


CVIII.

This breezy hunting song was composed by a brother of Colonel John Roy Stewart:—

<gai>Hu-ill ho! cha ’n ’eil mi muladach,
’S a’ ghaoth á bhàrr nam mulaichean;
’S ma bhios an turadh ann Di-luain,
Gur luath bheir mi am munadh orm.

Cha dean mi fiadhach tuille dhoibh,
Cha lion mi ’m bliadhn’ na cumain (1) doibh;
’S ma théid mi null, cha tig mi nall,
’S cha chuir sibh ’am fang tuille mi.

’S a Chaluim, ’s faon do bharail dhut,
Bhi dol ri gleann a’s gaillionn ann;
Le meud an t-sneachda ’s tu gun bhrògan,
Cha ruig thu ri d’ bheò gun mheileachadh.

B’ fhearr dhut tàmh ’s na bacaibh so,
’An coille dhlùth ’s ’am badanaibh;
Ri cur a’s cathadh ’s gaoth á tuath,
’S ri reothadh fuar bi’dh fasgadh ann.

’S ged dheanainn tàmh ’s na bacaibh so,
’An coille dhlùth ’s ’am badanaibh;
Thigeadh tu le lùb mu ’n cuairt,
A’s phaighinn duais an fhasgaidh dhut.<eng>


(1) Wooden vessels in which meat was salted for winter use.


[TD 172]

CIX.

<gai>Uilleam Ruighe ’n Uidhe<eng> was possessed with a marvellous enthusiasm for the chase, which no amount of hardship could damp or freeze. His escapades as a poacher form the subject of most of his lays, which reproduce, very vividly, the scenery, the associates, and the habits he was familiar with. In the ringing stanzas of this truly autobiographical ballad, we have the combined experience of many an adventurous hunting expedition, in which he engaged among the glens and corries of Braemar. Mackenzie and Munro, to whom he refers in the second last verse, were two of the Earl of Fife’s foresters, whose alert vigilance had occasioned him many an unquiet hour, and often destroyed his prospect of good sport.

<gai>Och! gur mi tha muladach
’S a’ mhunadh ’s mi leam fhéin,
’S mi bhi ’tamh an cròdhan beag
Bothain ’thog mi ’m fheum;
Cha robh spaid no tuagh agam,
No ball mu ’n cuairt do ’m làimh,
Ach a’ bhiodag làidir bharra-chaol,
’S ann leatha bhuain mi ’m fàl.

Tha na h-osanan air reothadh orm,
Mu ’n tèid a’ cheòthag suas,
Tha gaoth is cur is cathadh ann,
’S e gabhail domh ’s a’ chluais;
Ach glacaidh mis’ Bhan-Ghranndach (1) so,
A tha ’nam làimh ’s an uair,
Is fadaidh is’ an teine dhomh,
Le fùdar sgeireach cruaidh.<eng>


(1) One of our bard’s pet names for the gun which he received in a present from Col. William Grant, who was one of Macalpine’s numerous family of sons.


[TD 173]

<gai>’N uair ni is’ an teine dhomh,
’S ’n uair théid a’ cheòthag suas,
Tha bonnach anns a’ mhàileid,
A’s càise làidir cruaidh;
Gu’n dean mi fhèin no shuipeir dheth,
’S a rithisd théid mi ’m shuain;
’S ’n uair dh’ éireas mi ’s a’ mhaduinn,
Air a’ Ghlas-allt bheir mi ruaig.

’S mur faigh mi anns a’ Ghlas-allt, (1)
Na fir aigeannach tha bhuam,
Ma ruigeas mi an Dù-ghleannan,
A’s bràigh nan stùc tha shuas;
Siridh mi gu cothromach
Gach coire dhiubh a’s bruach,
’S cha chuir mi as a h-aon diùbh,
Ma dh’ fhaodas le gaoth-chuairt.

’S ma bhios an oidhch’ gle amharra,
’S gu’m bi’dh mi air mo ruaig,
Gu’n toir mi fhéin a’ chròthag orm,
Bha agam anns a’ bhruaich;
’S ged bhiodh cur a’s cathadh ann,
’S e ’gabhail domh bho thuath,
Cha chùram dhomh gu latha,
Ged chaidlinn ann glé shuain.

’N uair ’dh’ éireas mi ’s a’ mhaduinn,
As an lag ’s am beil mo shuain,
Gun toir mi fhéin am brudhach orm,
’S gach uidheam orm mu’n cuairt;
Siridh mi gu cothromach
Na bealaichean mu’n cuairt,
’S gu’m faic mi na daimh chabarach.
Air leacainn Meall-nan-uan.<eng>


(1) It will be recollected that Queen Victoria built a chalet here, called the Glassalt Shiel, where she resided occasionally for a few days at a time.


[TD 174]

<gai>’S ma gheibh mi anns a’ choire iad,
Gun ’cheòthag thighinn mu ’n cuairt,
Ealaidh mi gu dìchiollach,
Mu ’n gabh a h-aon diubh ’n ruaig;
Gu’n cuir mi air an t-socair i,
Mu ’n las am fùdar-cluais,
’S gur fada chluinntear ’ghleadhair,
Bhios air goile an daimh ruaidh.

’N uair gheibh es’ an gleadhair ud,
’S a théid a spleadhan suas,
Ruithidh mi gu dìchiollach,
Mu ’n téid e rithisd ’n a luath’ s;
Bheir làmh air a’ bhiodaig
A tha air crios ’s an truaill,
’S gu ’n smàl mi sios gu carraig i,
An amhaich an daimh ruaidh.

An sin an uair a shruthas e—
An fhuil tha ruith gu luath,
Tha sgianag laghach bhiorach agam,
Leigeas ’mhionach air a’ bhruaich;
’S ’n uair ’gheibh mi ann am bhreacan e,
Gu ’n teid mi rithisd ’s an ruaig,
’S cha ghabh mi fhìn bonn eagail,
Mur tig milleadh air mo luath ’s.

’S ’n àm tarruing thun an fheasgair,
Am bidh na fleasgaich ’dol mu ’n cuairt—
An Rothach is Mac Coinnich,
Na fir ghoilleach ’s nach ’eil truas,
’S mithich dhomh-sa tàirsinn as
An àros sin gu luath,
’S gu ’n toir mi braigh nan stucan orm,
’S cha churam dhomh o thuath.

[TD 175]

’S ’n uair shuidheas mi air socair,
’S gun dosguinn bhi ri luaidh,
Bheir mi lamh air botul
Tha fo’n t-sop am bun na bruaich;
’S mu thachras do na companaich
Bhi làimh rium anns an uair,
<eng>Lord Fife<gai> is damh na cròice—
An deoch-slàinte théid mu ’n cuairt.<eng>


CX.

After serving for some time in the Fencibles, <gai>Uilleam Ruighe ’n Uidhe<eng> enlisted in the Army, and had embarked on the expedition to Egypt under Sir Ralph Abercrombie, when he composed the subjoined verses. On a crowded transport, out in the melancholy main, the thoughts of the poet-hunter ever and anon went back to the scenes of his early life, and lingered lovingly among the hills, and woods, and streams, which he had frequented of yore—et dulcis reminiscitur Argos.

<gai>Cha bhi mi ri tuireadh,
Ri mì-ghean no mulad,
Cha ’n e siubhal a’ mhunaidh ni feum dhomh.

Ghabh mi m’ chead de na beanntan,
Dhe gach coill’ agus alltan,
Far am biodh na daimh ghreannar ’s iad céir-gheal.

Thug mi tamull as m’ òige
Greis an armailt Righ Deòrsa,
’S théid mi rithist le m’ dheòin ann gun euslain’.

’S ma tha ’n dàn domh thighinn dachaidh,
Gu ’m bi luathas ’am chasan,
Bheir mi sgrìob le Nic-Ailpein ’g am feuchainn.


[TD 176]

A Dhubh-ghleannan an aonaich!
Far an tric bha mi ’m aonar,
Ear am biodh na daimh chraobh-dhearg ’s iad céir-gheal.

Is air teachd do na mhaduinn,
Leam bu mhiannach bhi aca,
’N uair a bhiodh Nic-Ailpein ’an gleusadh.

’S bhiodh na biodagan rùisgte
Dol a phronnadh na rùdain,
Gus na h-ealachan a’ ghiùlan gun éislein.

’S ann a dh’ ionsuidh na làire,
’S tric a dhìrich an Làirig,
’S cha ’n fhacas riamh ’n sàs ann am fèith i.

’S cha bu Teàrlach bu tàire,
’N àm teannach’ na làire,
Gu ’m biodh teadhraichean làidir ’g an deuchainn.

’S a liuthad damh cròcach,
Air a cheangal le còrcach,
Thug i dhachaidh gu òrdugh Shir Seumas. (1)

’S ma tha ’n dàn domh thighinn dachaidh,
’S gu ’n dean mi féin beartas,
Gheibh Teàrlach bhuam seacaid is féile.

’S gar an d’ fhaod mi bhi làmh ribh,
Bi ’dh mi ’g òl nur deoch-slàinte,
Ged a chuir iad air sàl mi do ’n Eubhaid.<eng>

Charles and his mare, whose virtues are thus extolled, were often of service to the bard in carrying home the spoils of the chase.


(1) Sir James Grant of Grant.


[TD 177]

CXI.

Few of Fear Strath-Mhathaisidh’s verses afford pleasant reading. They were composed in rough and ready fashion, to amuse the passing hour, by one who was the heart and soul of good company. While it must be confessed that the concatenation of vocables, in which he clothed his ideas, often reminds one of the jolting of a goods train, it is proper to keep in view that he was in the habit of singing his songs to the music of his own accompaniment on the violin.

The following verses form part of a colloquy between the bard and his gun concerning deer-stalking, and its methods. As might be expected there is a reference to the Disarming Act.

Hunter.

<gai>Air nàile! ’s i mo run an Spàinteach, (1)
Sheasadh mo nàire ’s mi ’n am éiginn,
Bho ’n thachair dhomh-sa bhi am aonar,
Cuideachd ort fein anns an aonach;
Dean-sa dìchioll mar a b’ abhuisd,
’S cha ’n iarrainn gu bràth do chaochladh,
Ge bi àit an dean sinn tachairt,
Is barail leam gu ’m faigh mi h-aon diubh.<eng>

Gun.

<gai>Theirig-sa mu ’n cuairt gu h-eòlach,
’S na bi deònach air am fuadach,
Roinn a’ ghaoth a’s fiar a ’m thalamh,
’S na tig aineolach mu ’n cuairt dhaibh;<eng>


(1) In Gaelic poetry a fowling piece is often alluded to as <gai>“an Spàinteach”<eng> from the fact that at one time the best guns were made in Spain. Similarly, a “Toledo” was in English synonymous with “sword,” and in Gaelic <gai>Spàinteach<eng> sometimes had this significance.


[TD 178]

<gai>Dean mo theannadh air an t-socair,
Leig ort fead mu ’n cuir thu suas mi,
Sìn do laimh is grad cuir suas mi,
’S bheirinn umhlach’ air fear an nuallain.<eng>

Hunter.

<gai>Beannachd agad chionn do chomais,
’S mòr mo thomud de do sheanachas,
’S tu mo chiad leannan-falaich
Anns a’ ghleann ’s am bi an dararaich;
Chum mi roimhe o fheachd righ thu,
’N uair thug iad a’ chìs dhe Alba,
’G a do altrum gu muirneach o ’n uair sin,
’S an diugh tha ’chùis ri dhearbhadh.<eng>

Gun.

<gai>Ciod an dearbhadh bhiodh tu ’g iarraidh,
Nach fhaod thu na b’ fhiach dhiu fhaighinn,
’S co deis leam-sa ’chrò, na céir dhiubh,
Ach cuir ball do thé dhiubh romham;
So am beul am bheil na dh’ fhoghnas,
Beag na mòr dha ’n tig ’s an rathad,
’S cha bhi h-aon diubh slàn gun dòruinn,
Ged chàireadh tu cóig diùbh comhnard.<eng>

Hunter.

<gai>Bha mi uair-eiginn gle éibhinn,
’N uair bha mo chiall air m’ àilleachaig
Thainig ’m ionnsuidh a Dùn Eudainn,—
Dùil nach robh na b’ fhearr an Alba.
’S e their gach fear a bhios ’n a bhantrach,
Nach fhaigh e mac-samhla na dh’ fhalbh bhoidh,
Ach, air mo laimh! gu bheil iad briagach,—
Tha mi ’n so ’s mi diùbh-s’ ’g a ràdhainn.<eng>


[TD 179]

CXII.

The following verses form a portion of still another Song of the Chase by the Tacksman of Strathmashie, in the dramatic form. Like No. CVII., it represents the bard and a stag in animated discourse. Owing to the obscure phonetics in which the words are set down in the MS., several lines, which are absolutely unintelligible, have been omitted.

Hunter.

<gai>Gu ’m a slàn do ’n Spàinteach
Nach do mheall mi riamh am fheum,
Cha d’ rinn i dhomh breug ’s b’ aithne dh’ i;
’N uair chaidh sinn ’n ar cabhaig,
’S ’n ar deannabh le chéile,
Chaidh ise air gleus mar b’ ait leam.<eng>

Stag.

<gai>’S mòr a b’ fhearr dhuit dhol gu tìoradh,
’S a bhi sìor-chartadh ann,
Na bhi caitheamh do thìm,
Feadh na frìthe beachdadh,—
Bhi falbh leis an seòdulach, (1)
Gu h-eòlach is gu mall,
’S i obair is fhearr na spaisdearachd.<eng>

Hunter.

<gai>Thoir thusa do chomhairle,
Do ’n fhear ghabhas i bhuat,
Cha ’n eil mise ’s an uair ad sheacharan;
Bheirinn treis air an dùnan,
’S chuiriun glùn air a’ bhuain,
’S gu ’n toirinn seal uairibh ’thachairt ort.<eng>


(1) A large wooden spade bound with iron that was employed by a man who went in front of the old cumbrous plough to smooth inequalities in the ground. A man who walked backwards and held the heads of the foremost of the team, was called <gai>An Ceann-imir. An treabhaich<eng> held the plough.


[TD 180]

<gai>Dh’ fheuch am faicinn air fuaran,
Am fear ruadh fad-chosach,
Bheirinn féin ort, “Mo thruaighe!”
Bho ’n tha luaidh agam-sa,
Dheanadh do spadadh ’n uair bheuca’ tu thall,
’S bhitheadh an luaidh ’na mheall fo ’d
aisnichean.<eng>

Stag.

<gai>Tha sgeul chinnt’ agam fhìn,
Ged a chi’ tu a’ glaodhaich mi,
Ma’s am bi’dh tu am dhàil,
Gu ’m bithinn thall fada bhuat;
’N uair gheibhinn a’ ghaoth ort,
Gu m’ b’ eutrom mo cheum,
Dìreadh na beinn’ gu h-aigeannach.<eng>

Hunter.

<gai>Thoir thusa ’n aire dhuit fhéin,
Tha mise gle shìochainte,
Tha beul nach dean breug,
Gleusta fo ’m achlais…

’S mòr a b’ fhearr i fo mo sgéith,
Na ’chaile bhreun aineolach,
Nach deanadh beum dhomh ri mo fheum,
’S nach éisdeadh ri ceanaltas;
’S is’ ’bhean-uasal gle shuairc, gun bheud,
’N uair theid mise do ’n bheinn
Cha ’n uallachadh i.

’S ioma toman agus toll,
’S mi gu sgìth gle airsnealach,
Thug mi-fhìn air do thì,
Air bheag bìdh is fallus orm.
’N uair thanig am fortan
Chaidh gach dosguinn mu ’n làr,
Theid leam-sa thusa dheanamh daithead,
’S bha ceannach air.<eng>

[TD 181]

CXIII.

Throughout the Poetry of Badenoch there are, as might indeed be expected, numerous references to the House of Gordon, who held sway for so long a period over the ancient lordship. The baronial Castle of Ruthven, standing so grandly upon its green mound, overlooking the Spey, was in all likelihood occupied by its noble proprietor and his friends every year, when they pursued the pleasures of the chase upon the dusky mountains of Alvie, and Kingussie, and Laggan; nay!—let us add—and of Kincardine and Insh. In more recent times, the stage-houses of Aviemore, Pitmain, and Dalwhinnie, were made the head-quarters of the Dukes of Gordon when they visited their estates in Badenoch; and, in the case of Pitmain, the two last Dukes often resided here, even after the hunting-lodge of Kinrara had attained all its glory, as the favourite residence of the Duchess Jane. In the course of their hunting expeditions to the remoter parts of the country, they would often pass a night at one or other of the houses of their “gentlemen tacksmen,” for whom Badenoch was famous. Cluny Castle was, of course, often honoured with a visit from those who were old and constant friends of the family and clan. As an illustration of this ancient alliance, it may be mentioned that a few years before his death, Duke George travelled all the way to Cluny, in order to be present at the baptism of the late Colonel Duncan Macpherson of Cluny, and that he had been one of his father’s trustees. At Pitmain, on the occasion referred to, he gave a dinner to as many of his old cronies of the 92nd, and other half-pay officers, as were within reach.


[TD 182]

But it was not merely the better classes who had opportunity of coming in contact with the Chiefs of Gordon. As is well known, both Duke Alexander and his son delighted in associating with the common people—falling in heartily for the nonce with their life and manners.

It is pleasant to think of Duke George being present at the house-heating party given by Sergeant Mackinnon—his quondam companion-in-arms—who had retired from the army, and had come to set up his lares and penates in the village of Kingussie; or to follow the steps of the same true-hearted patron as he toiled up the braes that led to Strone, where Captain Cattanach lay confined to bed in his turf-built domicile.

Such fire-side catches as this—and they were very numerous—tell how familiar to the minds of young and old, in the upper valley of the Spey, was the name of “The Duke.”

<gai>Tha na féidh air na cuirn,
’S tha fir ghleusd’ air an cùl,
’S gheibh Diùc Alasdair dha fhéin,
Dà cheann deug chum a bhuird.<eng>


CXIV.

Hear is another lilt of the moors, sung to a lively air, in which, as in the preceding, we are reminded of the ancient lords of the manor, and the old order of things. The refrain has been given already as forming part of a little pastoral, which some bard had chanted on a May morning long ago.


[TD 183]

<gai>Hó ró! gur fada, fada,
Hó ró! gur fada leam,
’S fada leam tha thu gun tighinn,
’Choilich dhuibh ni bruidhinn rium.

Chaidh sinn am fradharc a chéile,
Is chaidh Seumas air a ghlùn,
’S gu ’n robh coileach dubh na géige,
Mullach a sgéith os a chionn.

’S boidheach am marbhan so th’ agam,
Ni mi ’ghibhteadh sios do ’n Diùc,
’S gheibh mi fearainn-fiù an Craichidh,
Fhad ’s bhitheas clach air a’ ghrunnd.<eng>


CXV.

This ballad, composed shortly after Waterloo, makes merry over an abortive hunting expedition to the Forest of Ben Alder, in which the Tacksman of Gallovie engaged along with his friends.

John MacNab, a native of Perthshire, settled at Gallovie towards the end of the eighteenth century. His wife was a daughter of Dr Thomas Ross, minister of Kilmonivaig, and niece of Sir Ewen Cameron, Bart. of Fassiefern, by whom he had a large and highly esteemed family. Leaving Gallovie, with which he had been so long connected, he tenanted for a short time the farm of Aberarder, and subsequently that of Blaragie, where he died. Of powerful frame, and endowed with a keen sense of humour, <gai>Iain Mòr Mac an Abba,<eng> in his day, figured largely in the social life of Brae-Badenoch, where his ready-witted sayings were long remembered. John MacNab was succeeded in Gallovie


[TD 184]

by the redoubtable tacksman of Cluny, John Roy Macpherson—Iain Ruadh Chluainidh—who for a time rented the whole Forest of Ben Alder. Oddly enough, he was succeeded in Aberarder by a son of John Roy’s, known as <gai>Dotair Ruadh Ghealagaidh.<eng>

When this deer drive took place, it would appear that he was resident at Aberarder, from the reference in one of the verses to “a vessel,” or boat, which would be required to transport the party across Loch Laggan. For this great occasion there had been mighty preparations going on beforehand, in the way of making bullets, cleaning guns, training dogs, and so forth. At last the appointed day arrived, and the assembled sportsmen set out gaily for the forest, and with much ado proceeded to carry out their plan of campaign. Soon the mountain recesses of Ben Alder re-echoed wildly with the reverberations of a fearful din, in which mingled the shouts of hunters, the barking of dogs, the frequent report of guns, and the frantic bellowing of stags; all which sounds being wafted on the winds along with clouds of smoke and smell of sulphur, threw—we are told—the whole country into a state of alarm, and disturbed in particular the devotions of the goodwives of Garraline. By and by, however, as the afternoon advanced, the noise gradually subsided; and the sportsmen, who discovered that they had all been alike unsuccessful, made their way home in very subdued mood, having nothing to show as the result of their prodigious exertions. And the mountains were again wrapt in ancient silence.

Some one burlesqued the proceedings of the day, which thus ended, after all, in smoke, by composing the subjoined verses. A few of these I took down


[TD 185]

from my old friend, the Rev. Coll Macdonald, Fort-Augustus, who was a native of Laggan, and retained an amusing recollection of the occasion. But for the complete copy of the squib I am indebted to the Rev. John MacNab MacGregor, Kilmore, a grandson of the tacksman of Gallovie.

<gai>’S ann aig Taobh Loch Lagain
A thionail an Caiptean
A ghaisgich gu tapaidh le ’n armaibh;
Le glaodhaich, le sùrd,
Le farum ’s an duthaich,
Dheanadh cliù <eng>Waterloo<gai> chuir bho sheanachas.

Bha gunna aig Iain,
Aig Iain, aig Iain.
Bha gunna aig Iain ’s a’ gharbhlaich;
Bha gunna aig Iain,
’N uair chaidh e do ’n fhireach,
Ach dh’ fhag e an t-sithionn, gun mharbhadh.

Bhuail na gaisgich beum-sgéithe
A fhreagair na sléibhtean,
Is chlisg sliochd na h-éild am Beinn Eallair;
Chaidh na gallaibh ’n an crùban
Le geilt anns na cùiltean,
’S chaidh Domhnull a dhùsgadh le ’n eigheach.

Ghrad ghluais Mac an Abba
Le ghunna càm, fada,
’S e ’m barail gu ’n deanadh e marbhadh;
Leis na loisg e do dh’ fhùdar,
Chuir e maoim air an dùthaich,
’S chuir e gun ùrnuigh mnathan na ’Garbhlainn. (1)<eng>


(1) This was a large crofting township situated on the pleasant slopes above the farms of Maccoul and Cromara, and over against Gallovie, where not a house remains.


[TD 186]

<gai>Bha sgiobair an t-soitheich, (1)
A leum air a’ chaothach,
’N uair chunnaic e ’n sealladh bha anbhar;
Ach ’s marsantachd dhona,
A chleachd e bhi sporadh,
’S cha d’ rinn e mòr-dholaidh le armaibh.

Bha Seumas (2) le Oscar,
’N a shuidhe gu soisneach,
Aig ceann Lochan na h-Earba;
’N uair chunnaic e ’n t-ùdlaich’,
’S ann a bhuail e air bùirich—
O! b’ fhearr leis bhi smiùradh a’ mheanbh-chruidh.

Chuir e Oscar le Coilleag (3)
’N a shiubhal tre ’n choille,
O! saoil an robh coir aig an t-sealgair!
Ach an aite daimh allaidh,
’S ann a bhuail e craobh dharaich,
’S fhuair Iseabal dhachaidh leth-mharbh e.<eng>


(1) Donald MacNab, a brother of the Tacksman of Gallovie, had in his youth successfully engaged in the then common pursuit of retailing merchandise on horseback. Having entered on a lease of Dalchully, he married a daughter of Parson Robert. This Robert Macpherson belonged to the Banchor family. For some time he served as chaplain in the old 78th Regiment, and figures in the pages of Jupiter Carlyle. After retiring from the army—perhaps about 1770—he was appointed Royal Bounty missionary for Brae-Badenoch and Brae-Lochaber, and besides occupied in succession the farms of Aberarder proper and Cromara. Falling into rather straitened circumstances—like many another influential Highland gentleman of those days—he removed to Perth, where he died about the end of the century at a good old age; a notable character.

(2) Another brother of John MacNab.

(3) Two deer-hounds.


[TD 187]

<gai>Ge b’ ioma fear gasda,
A thionail a ghaisgich,
Do fhrìth Taobh Loch Lagain a shealgadh;
A leithid dhe fhuathas,
’S do fhuaimrich gun bhuaidh,
Riamh roimhid cha chualas an Albainn.

Chlisg Raonull Shrath Mhathaisidh. (1)
’N uair chual e ’s a’ mhaduinn,
Iain Mac an Abba ri stararaich;
Chaidh a chridhe ’n a chùlthaobh,
Le fàile an fhùdair,
O! theich e null ’s chaidh e do ’n Gharbha.<eng>


CXVI.

<gai>Uilleam Ruighe ’n Uidhe,<eng> being one of the best deer-stalkers of his day, often accompanied members of the Rothiemurchus family on their hunting expeditions, and, as a companion in the chase, seems to have been on terms of no small degree of intimacy with them. In consequence of this friendship, our bard, we may be sure, would never fire a surreptitious shot in the Forest of Rothiemurchus. In the song of the chase, given below, William makes mention of his patrons, to whom he


(1) This was Ranald Macdonald, whose ancestors had for generations been wadsetters of Gallovie, holding extensive property on both sides of Loch-Laggan. Latterly he tenanted the farm of Strathmashie, where also resided his brother Angus, who, like himself, had married one of the numerous daughters of Macpherson of Dalraddy. <gai>Rao’ll Ghealagaidh<eng> was a cousin of the Tullochcroma family, who were by this time at Garvabeg—all being of the <gai>Sliochd Iain Duìbh,<eng> who have now, alas! passed away from the wild regions where they flourished so long.


[TD 188]

was devotedly attached, and of the conviviality which prevailed at the Doone when the sportsmen would return from the hill.

<gai>Fhuair mi naidheachd an dé
Bho shealgair an fhéidh,
Chuir clach eadar mi féin ’s mo bhròg.

’S mi bhi ’n garbh-choire Dhé,
Ann an àros an fhéidh,
Far ann cuireamaid féum air lòn.

Troimh sneachda nan spéur.
Seal mu ’n éirich a’ ghréin,
Air mo bhreacan ’ga fhéileadh orm.

’N uair théid Mac-Alpein (1) do ’n Ghleann,
’S nighean an Tuairnir ’na làimh
Bi’dh fuil air damh seang na cròic’.

Tràth ’shiùbhlas Mac-Aidh
Le bhrod chù mòr bàn,
Agus crith air a’ bhrang ’s e ’falbh.

Gu ’m beil mulad orm féin,
Nach d’ rinn sinn bonn féum’—
Chualas langan an fhéidh ’sa cheò.

’N uair ’thig Mac-Alpein bho ’n bheinn,
’S e ’na shuidh’ ’san taigh-sheinns’.
Aig a ghillean bhiodh béin ri òl.

’N uair a thigeadh tu ’n Dùn,
Far an suidheadh a’ chùirt,
Chluinnteadh sunnd ann ad rùm àir ceòl.<eng>


(1) Patrick Grant of Rothiemurchus, called Macalpine, died about 1743, long before the time of William Gow, but the designation may have been hereditary in his family for some generations as a sort of patronymic.


[TD 189]

<gai>Bhiodh do chùpachan làn,
’Cur suas deochan-slàint’,
Fìon dùbailt’ bho ’n Spàinnt ’g an òl.<eng>


CXVII.

<gai>“Allt an Lochan Uaine”<eng> proves that William Gow was indeed a poet of nature, whose ideas of life, and manners, and men, intuitively welled forth in numbered harmony. There has probably been no Gaelic song more popular throughout Badenoch and Strathspey during last century than this, which has not inappropriately been termed “The Stalker’s Dream.” A gun which had been presented to him by Colonel William Grant of Rothiemurchus, William Gow often alludes to in his verses as Nighean’ a’ Choirneil, or Nic Ailpein—i.e., the daughter of the Colonel, the daughter of MacAlpin. And so, addressing it here as a blooming maiden, he gives vent to his exultant feelings in this fine lyric, that carries us in imagination to the wild, lonesome region between the valleys of the Spey and the Dee, which he had roamed in storm and sunshine; where

“he had been alone
Amid the heart of many thousand mists,
That came to him, and left him, on the heights,”—

where he had watched the dawn glimmering on the grey, rocky pinnacles overhead, as he inhaled the fresh morning air, and listened to the various sounds of nature.

<gai>Aig Allt an Lochain Uaine,
Gu ’n robh mi uair a’ tamh,
’S ged bha ’n t-àite fuar,
Bha ’n fhàrdach fuathasach blàth;


[TD 190]

Ged thigeadh gaoth o thuath orm,
Is cathadh luath o ’n àird,
Bhiodh Allt an Lochain Uaine
Le ’fhuaim ’g am chur gu pràmh.

Mo chaileag bhoidheach chuach-buidhe,
Na biodh ort gruaim no greann;
Ged tha mi ’dol as m’ eòlas,
Ma ’s beò dhomh thig mi ann;
’S ’n uair bhios damh na cròice
Ri bòilich anns a’ ghleann,
Cha tugainn blas do phòige
Air stòr nan Innsean thall.

Oidhche dhomh ’s mi ’m ònar,
’S mi ’comhnuidh anns a’ ghleann,
Am bothan beag nan sgòr,
Far an cluinntear bòichdeal mheann;
Thoir leam fhéin gu ’n cuala mi
Fuar ghuth os mo cheann,
Ag innseadh dhomh bhi seòlta,
Gu ’n robh an tòir ’s a’ ghleann.

Dh’ éirich mi le buaireadh,
Is thog mi suas mo cheann,
Gach paidreag bha mu ’n cuairt domh,
Chuir mi mu ’m ghuaillnibh teann;
Bha Nigh ’n a’ Chòirneil shuas bhuam
A choisinn buaidh ’s gach àm,—
“Ghaoil!” thu ’irt i, “na biodh gruaim ort,
Ma ’s ruaig e, na bi mall.”

Shiubhail mi gach aonach
Bho Laoighe gu Carn a Mhàim,
Is bheachdaich mi gach caochan,
Nach bitheadh daoine annt’;


[TD 191]

Mu ’n d’ éirich grian ’s na speuraibh,
’S mu ’n d’ fheuch i air aon bheann,
Ghràd ’dh aithnich mi ’s an uair sin,
Am madadh ruadh ’s a’ ghleann.

Labhair mi le céille,
Is dh’ éisd mi ris gach allt,
Mar fhreagradh iad d’ a chéile,
Is iad gu léir gun chainnt;
Labhair mi ri ’m Uachdaran
’Thug uillt á cruas nam beann,—
Le còmhnadh ’n Fhir chaidh cheusadh,
Cha bhi mi féin am fang.<eng>


CXVIII.

This section may be concluded with a croon, in which an aged and expatriated hunter commemorates some of the favourite haunts of his deer-stalking days in Badenoch.

<gai>Hó ró air coireachan Bhàideanach,
Hì rì air coireachan Bhàideanach,
Gu ’m beil mi fo ghruaim bho ’n dh’ fhag mi iad.

Eadar an Carn Dearg ’s an Làirig,
Coire Chinnein nan aighean dàireach,
Bheirinn tacar thun na fardaich,
An dràsta ged tha ’n aois orm.

Eadar Strath Labhrach ’s Glac nan Cabar,
’S tric a dh’ ealaidh mi ’s a mhaduinn,—
’S tric a dh’ ealaidh mi ’s a’ mhaduinn;
Is spadainn le ’m dheadh Spàinteach iad.<eng>


[TD 192]

SECTION SIXTH.

SONGS OF WAR.

It will be observed that every section of the Poetry of Badenoch displays abundant evidence of the martial spirit which prevailed among the inhabitants of the country. The stern arbitrament of the sword was universally recognised as the natural means to obtain redress for wrong or injury, and as being, along with the gentle art of venery, the most fit employment for gentlemen. Nevertheless, although the fiery cross that summoned the clansmen to war and deeds of dauntless valour for the honour of their name, touched their feelings so deeply, and aroused them to patriotic fervour often associated with bardic song, it is remarkable that remaining Gaelic poetry should contain comparatively few strains instinct with the exciting joy of battle.

Many pieces that might, with perhaps almost equal appropriateness, have been placed among the Songs of War, will be found among the Songs of Love, or Compliment, or Death. For war, so far as it comes within the scope of the existing poetry of Badenoch, was always closely connected with the lives and fortunes of familiar persons. Of the “battles long ago,” which, according to dim tradition, were fought at Invernahavon, Druim High above Etteridge, and


[TD 193]

the Moor beside Mile House of Nuide—not to mention many another locality—no trace remains in song. The Clann Mhuirich Bhàideanach were a mettlesome race, and fond of fighting. Ever ready to respond to the calls of loyalty, they had taken part in the wars of Montrose, had risen to support the fiery Clavers—<gai>Iain Dubh nan Cath,<eng> i.e., Dark John of Battles—and had been out in 1715; but no one thought of taking down the songs, which, we may be sure, these stirring times gave birth to in a country where every second man and woman was a bard, and where no notable event was left unsung. After some generations, more pressing matters of living interest thrilled the hearts of the people, and engaged the voice of song; so that the old world ballads in great measure passed into oblivion.


CXIX.

Among the verses connected with the Forty-Five, this strain, which had been introduced into the Gaelic version of the Highland Laddie, continued at least until the present generation to be very popular with children on the head waters of the Spey. No rhyme used to be more frequently on the lips of schoolboys. It may have been composed after Prestonpans, expressing, as it does, the buoyant hopes of the Jacobites.

<gai>“Theid sinn ’chogadh ris a Phrionns’,”
Thu’ irt Diùc Uilleam, thu’ irt Diùc Uilleam;
“Sud an cogadh nach téid leinn,”
Thu’ irt na gillean, thu’ irt na gillean.<eng>


[TD 194]

CXX.

A chivalrous herd-boy is said to have composed these fine-spirited lines, on seeing the men of his clan set out to join Prince Charlie.

<gai>Tha luchd nam breacan, luchd nam breacan,
Luchd nam breacan sgarlaid;
Is luchd nam breacan ballach uaine,
’Dol air chuairt le Tearlach.

’S nam bithinn fhìn a’ m’ shia-bliadhn’-diag,
Nam bithinn mar a b’ àill leam;
’S nam bithinn fhìn a’ m’ shia-bliadhn’-diag,
Gum falbhainn fhìn le Tearlach.<eng>


CXXI.

For many tales of the Forty-Five I have been indebted to an old resident in Little Nuide, called <gai>Bean an Déibhiosdanaich.<eng> In particular, she used to give a graphic and realistic account of the battle of Culloden, with personal details which she had derived from the traditions of her husband’s people, who lived on Drumossie Moor. Three members of this family took part in the conflict, and all escaped unscathed. My old friend spoke of Colonel John Roy Stewart as, <gai>“Brathair seanair an duine bh’ agam”<eng>—i.e., “The brother of my husband’s grand-father.”<eng> With the exception of two stanzas out of the five that enumerate the <gai>“brataichean sròil”<eng>—i.e., banners that were not yet come up when the conflict began with such unlooked-for sudenness—I wrote out from her recitation the whole of the warrior-poet’s ballad on Culloden. Unfortunately,


[TD 195]

like not a few of my MSS., that which contained the euphonious triplets of this martial chant has mysteriously disappeared into the limbo of lost things. However, I do not remember that Bean an Déibhiosdanaich’s version differed materially from that given below, which is Turner’s. He had travelled through Badenoch and Strathspey collecting material for his volume of Gaelic songs. Some of my old friends, whose homes he had visited about the beginning of the eighteenth century, retained a lively recollection of him, and always spoke of him as, <gai>“Am bard Mac an Tuairneir.”<eng> Seated on the identical <gai>beinc<eng>—i.e., settle—upon which he had spent a night, I have listened for hours to the songs and tales of other days.

When in hiding—<gai>fo chàrn<eng>—after Culloden, John Roy Stewart employed his muse to good purpose, in the composition of several songs which help to give one a true idea of the feelings of the discomfited Jacobites at that anxious period. In his hurried account of the battle, he gives us lurid glimpses of the confused scenes upon the bleak moor of Drumossie on that ill-fated day. The weariness and fatigue of the travel-worn Highlanders; the biting blast from the east, that drove blinding showers of snow and sleet in their faces, when they turned to meet the foe; the storm of bullets that, by and by, broke out upon them, intermingled with the fury of the elements; the brutal slaughter of the clansmen; and, above all, the accidental absence of so many of the best of their fighting men, coupled with the disastrous inaction of the Clan Donald,—Colonel Stewart brings us into the midst of the turmoil, and makes us see, and hear, and feel it all.


[TD 196]

<gai>O! gur mis’ th’ air mo chràdh,
Thuit mo chridhe gu làr,
’S tric snidhe gu m’ shàil o m’ léirsinn.
O! gur mis’, &c.

Dh’ fhalbh mo chlàistinneachd uam,
Cha chluinn mi ’san uair,
Gu mall na gu luath ni ’s éibhinn,
Dh’ fhalbh mo, &c.

Mu Phrionns’ Thearlach mo rùin,
Oighre dligheach a’ chrùin,
’S e gun fhios ciod an taobh a théid e.
Mu Phrionns, &c.

Fuil rìoghail nam buadh,
Bhi ’ga dìobairt ’s an uair,
’S mac dìolain le ’shluagh ag éiridh.
Fuil rìoghail, &c.

Sìol nan cuilean a bha, (1)
Gu ’n ro mhath chinnich an t-àl,
Chuir iad sinn’ ann an càs na h-éiginn.

Ged a bhuannaich sibh blàr,
Cha b’ann d’ ur cruadal a bha,
Ach gun ar shluaghainn bhi ’n dàil a chéile.

Bha iad iomadaidh uainn,
Dheth gach fine mu thuath,
’S bu mhisd’ sinn e ri uair ar féuma.

Còig brataichean sròil,
Bu ro mhath chuireadh an lò,
Gun duine dhiùbh ’chòir a chéile.


(1) Bha e na bheul-aithris am measg an t-sluaigh gu ’n robh, ma ’s fìor, roithlean muice air an righ, agus gu ’m b’ ann a <eng>trough<gai> airgid ’bha e faighinn a bhìdhe.


[TD 197]

Iarla Chrombaidh le shlóigh, (1)
Agus Bàrasdal òg,
’S Mac-’Ic-Ailein le sheòid nach géilleadh.

Clann-Ghriogair nan Gleann,
Buidheann ghiobach nan lann,
’S iad a thigeadh a nall na ’n éight’ iad.

Clann-Mhuirich nam buadh,
Iad-san uile ’bhi uainn,
Gur h-e m’ iomadan truagh r’a léughadh.

A Chlann-Dòmhnuill mo ghaoil,
G’ am bu shuaithcheantas fraoch,
Mo chreach uile! nach d’ fhaod sibh éirigh.

An fhuil uaibhreach gun mheang,
Bha buan, cruadalach, ann,
Ged chaidh ur bualadh an am na téugbhail. (2)

Dream eile mo chreach!
Fhuair an làimhseacha’ goirt,
Gu ’n ceann am Frisealach gasda, treubhach.

Clann-Fhionnlaidh Bhràidh-Mhàrr,
Buidheann ceannsgalach, àrd,
’N uair a ghlaoidhte’ adbhans ’s iad dh’ éireadh.

Mo chreach uile ’s mo bhròn!
Na fir ghasd’ ’tha fo leòn,
Clann-Chatain nan sròl ’bhi dhéigh-làimh.<eng>


(1) Young Barrisdale’s men and the MacGregors were in Sutherland along with the MacKenzies, under the command of the Earl of Cromarty. Very few of the Clan Ranald had arrived; while the Macphersons, who made a hurried march from Badenoch, were still half-a-dozen miles off when the Prince drew up his followers for battle on that ill-timed and ill-chosen field.

(2) It will be observed that the Colonel gives no countenance to the theory that the Macdonalds took part in the battle.


[TD 198]

<gai>Chaill sinn Dòmhnull donn, suairc,
O Dhùn Chrombaidh so shuas,
Mar ri Alasdair ruadh na féile.

Chaill sinn Raibeart an àigh,
’S cha bu ghealtair e ’m blàr,
Fear ’sgathadh nan cnàmh ’s nam féithean.

’S ann thuit na rionnagan gasd;
Bu mhath àluinn an dreach,
Cha bu phàigheadh leinn mairt ’n an éirig.

Air thùs an latha dol sìos,
Bha gaoth a cathadh nan sian, (1)
As an adhar bha trian ar léiridh.

Dh’ fhàs an talamh cho tròm,
Gach fraoch, fearunn, ’us fonn,
’S nach bu chothrom dhuinn lòm an t-sléibhe.

Lasair theine nan Gall,
Frasadh pheileir mu ’r ceann,
Mhill sud eireachdas lann ’s bu bhéud e.

Ma ’s fìor an dàna g’a cheann,
Gu ’n robh Achan ’sa chàmp, (2)
Dearg mhéirleach nan ròd ’s nam breugan.<eng>


(1) The severity of the blizzard that swept over the moor on that fatal morning was remembered to the end of their lives by those who survived to tell the story of the battle in long after years.

(2) Lord George Murray—now generally acknowledged to have been the strongest man in the Jacobite army—was distrusted by a section of the Prince’s followers who favoured the Duke of Perth. Chiefly in consequence of the intrigues of Mr Secretary Murray, even Charles, for a time, believed him capable of treachery. These suspicions were wholly groundless, but did incalculable injury to the common cause. The jealousy and bickerings of the chiefs occasioned a spirit of discord and insubordination throughout the entire army. After Culloden, not a few of the discomfited Jacobites endeavoured to preserve their amour propre by attributing their defeat to treachery. And so with Colonel Stewart, who was, besides, a partisan of the Duke of Perth.


[TD 199]

<gai>’S e sin an Seanalair mòr,
Gràin ’us mallachd an t-slòigh,
Reic e ’onoir ’s a chòir air eucoir.

Thionndaidh e ’choileir ’s a chleòc,
Air son an sporain bu mhò,
Rinn sud dolaidh do sheòid rìgh Seumas.

Ach thig cuibhl’ an fhortain mu ’n cuairt,
Car o dheas no o thuath,
’S gheibh ar n-eascaraid duais na h-eucoir.

’S gu ’m bi Uilleam MacDheòrs’, (1)
Mar chraoibh gun duilleach fo leòn,
Gun fhreumh, gun mheangan, gun mheòirean géige.

Gu ’ma lòm bhios do leac,
Gun bhean, gun bhràthair, gun mhac,
Gun fhuaim clarsaich, gun lasair chéire.

Gun sòlas, sonas, no seamhas,
Ach dòlas dona mu d’ cheann,
Mar bh’ air ginealach Chlann na h-Eiphit.

A’s chi sinn fhathasd do cheann,
Dol gun athadh ri crann,
’S eòin an adhair gu teann ’ga réubadh.

’S bi’dh sinn uile fa-dheòidh,
Araon sean agus òg,
Fo ’n Rìgh dhligheach ’ga ’n còir duinn géilleadh.<eng>


(1) This unsparing malediction upon one who, while still a youth, earned an immortality of obloquy as “the Butcher,” was, except in a single particular, fulfilled in the course of his career. After a succession of defeats, and being forced at last to surrender and disarm his army, Cumberland retired into private life in disgrace, and soon died.


[TD 200]

CXXII.

Although usually entitled <gai>“Oran air latha Chuil-Fhodair,”<eng> these verses may be regarded rather as a lament for those who had fallen in the fray, as well as for those who were suffering severely for their loyalty to their hereditary sovereign. Many had been slaughtered in cold blood. Homes had been burned to the ground; private property had been carried away or destroyed; women and children had been subjected to brutal ill-treatment—many of the latter being stabbed to death in their cradles. As accounts of these scandalous proceedings reached our warrior-poet in his place of concealment, no marvel though he should have been moved to bitter resentment against the Duke of Cumberland, who was the prime instigator of such atrocities; and to keen regret on account of the extreme peril of his royal master, and his friends and companions in arms.

<gai>Gur a mòr mo chuis mhulaid,
’S mi ri caoine na guin a ta ’m thìr,
A Righ! bi làidir, ’s tu ’s urrainn
Ar naimhdean a chumail fo chìs;
Oirnne ’s laidir Diùc Uilleam,
’N rag-mheirleach, tha guin aige dhuinn,
B’ e sud salachar nan steallag,
Tigh ’nn an uachdar air chruineachd an fhuinn.

Mo chreach Tearlach ruadh, boidheach,
Bhi fo bhinn aig Righ Deòrsa nam biasd;
B’ e sud dìteadh na còrach—
An fhìrinn ’s a beul foipe sìos.
Ach, a Righ! ma ’s a deòin leat,
Cuir an rìoghachd air seòl a chaidh dhinn,
Cuir righ dligheach na còrach,
Ri linn na tha beò os ar cinn.


[TD 201]

Mo chreach! armailt nam breacan,
Bhi air sgaoileadh ’s air sgapadh ’s gach àit,
Aig fìor-bhalgairean Shasuinn
Nach do ghnàthaich bonn ’cheartais ’n an dàil;
Ged a bhuannaich iad baiteal,
Cha b’ ann d’ an cruadal na ’n tapadh a bha,
Ach gaoth ’n ear agus frasan
Thigh ’nn a nìos oirnn bharr machair nan Gall.

’S truagh nach robh sinn an Sasunn,
Gun bhi cho teann air ar dachaidh ’s a bha,
’S cha do sgaoil sinn cho aithghearr,
Bhiodh ar dìcheall ri seasamh na b’ fhearr;
Ach ’s droch dhraoidheachd is dràchdan (1)
Rinneadh dhuinne mu ’n deachas ’n an dàil,
Air na frìthean eòlach do sgap sinn,
’S bu mhi-chomhail gu’n d’fhairtlich iad oirnn.

Mo chreach mhòr, na cuirp ghlé-gheal
Tha ’n an sìn’, air na sleibhtean ud thall,
Gun chiste, gun leintean,
Ga ’n adhlacadh fhéin anns na tuill;
’Chuid tha beò dhiù ’n déidh sgaoileadh,
’S iad ’g am fògar le gaothan thar tuinn,
Fhuair a’ Chuigs’ a toil fhéin dinn,
’S cha chan iad ach reubaltaich ruinn.

Fhuair na Gaill sinn fo ’n casan,
’S mòr an nàire ’s am masladh sud leinn,
’N déidh ar dùtcha ’s ar n-àite
A spùilleadh ’s gun bhlàth’s againn ann;<eng>

(1) Here it will be observed that the Colonel attributes the defeat to magic enchantments, as well as to the severity of the weather, and the scattered condition of the Jacobite army. Further on he again adduces the crazy charge of treachery against Lord George Murray.


[TD 202]

<gai>Caisteal Dhùinidh (1) ’n déidh a losgadh,
’S e ’n a làraich lom, thosdach, gun mhiagh,
Gu ’m b’ e ’n caochaladh goirt e,
Gu ’n do chaill sinn gach sochair a b’ fhiach.

Cha do shaoil leam, le ’m shùilean
Gu ’m faicinn gach cùis mar a tha,
Mar spùtadh nam faoilleach, (2)
’N àm nan luidhean a sgaoileadh air blàir;
Thug a’ chuibhle car tionndaidh,
’S tha ioma fear iom-cheart an càs,
A Righ! seall le do chaoimhneas
Air na fir th’ aig na naimhdean an sàs.

’S mòr eucoir ’n luchd orduigh,
An fhuil ud a dhortadh le foill,
Mo sheachd mallachd aig Deòrsa, (3)
Fhuair e ’n lath’ ud air ordugh dha fhéin;
Bha ’n dà chuid air a mheoirean,
Mòran gìogan gun tròcair le foill,
Mheall e sinne le chomhra’,
’S gu ’n robh ar barail ro-mhòr air r’ a linn.

Ach fhad ’s is beò sinn r’ ar latha,
Bidh sinn caoidh na ceathairn chaidh dhinn,
Na fir threubhach bha sgairteil,
Dheanadh teugbhail le claidheamh ’s le sgiath;
Mur biodh siantan ’n ar n-aghaidh,
Bha sinn shìos air ar n-aghairt gu dian,
’S bhiodh luchd Beurla ’n an laidhe
Ton thair cheann—b’e sud m’ aighear ’s mo mhiann.<eng>


(1) The principal residence of Lord Lovat.

(2) The period covering the last fortnight of Winter and the first fortnight of Spring—O. S.

(3) Lord George Murray.


[TD 203]

<gai>Och nan och! ’s mi fo sprochd,
’S mi an dràsda ri osnaich leam fhìn,
’G amharc feachd an dù-Rosaich,
’G ithe feur agus cruineachd an fhuinn:
Rothaich iargalt is Cataich (1)
Tigh ’nn a nall le luchd chasag is lann,—
Iad mar mhìol-choin air acras,
Siubhal chrìochan, charn, chlach, agus bheann.

Mo chreach! tìr air an d’ thàinig,—
Rinn sibh nise clàr-réidh dh’ i cho lom,
Gun choirce, gun ghrainnsich,
Gun sìol taght’ ann am fàsach na ’m fonn;
Prìs na circ air an spardan,
Gu ruigeas na spàinean thoirt uainn,
Ach sgrios na craoibhe fa blàth oirbh,
Air a crìonadh bho bàrr gu a bonn.

Tha ar cinn fo na choille,
’S éiginn beanntan is gleanntan thoirt oirnn,
Sinn gun sùgradh, gun mhacnus.
Gun éibhneas, gun aiteas, gun cheòl;
Air bheag bìdhe no teine,
Air na stùcan an laidheadh an ceò,—
Sinn mar chomhachaig eile,
Ag éisdeachd ri deireas gach lò.<eng>


CXXIII.

Sitting on the bank of a streamlet in the vicinity of his retreat, and while he bathed a sprained ankle in the limpid water, John Roy Stewart composed


(1) Companies formed from the clans which, had sided with the Government were quartered in such districts as had supported the Prince, and were particularly zealous in carrying out the repressive measures which had been adopted against their unfortunate countrymen.


[TD 204]

this ditty which, on very slender grounds, has often been called <gai>“Urnuigh Iain Ruaigh”<eng>—“John Roy’s Prayer.”<gai> In order to give some vraisemblance to this title, which he adopts, Mr Mackenzie of the “Beauties,” has added an Amen to the last verse! John Roy escaped to France along with Prince Charles, and died there in 1752, in the French service. A baronetcy granted him by the Chevalier de St George was the last patent of nobility bestowed by the exiled family.

<gai>Aig taobh sruthain ’n a shuidhe ’s e sgith,
Tha ’n Crìosdaidh bochd Iain Ruadh,—
’N a cheatharnach fhathasd gun sìth,
’S a chas air tuisleadh ’s an tìm gu truagh.

Ma thig Guimhnich no Cataich a’ d’ dhàil,
Mu ’n slànaich air do lùigheannan truagh,
Ged thig iad cho trice ’s is àill,
Cha chuir iad orm lamh le ’n luath ’s.

Ni mi ’n ubhaidh rinn Peadar do Phàl,
’S lùighean air fas-leum bruaich,
’Seachd paidir ’n ainm Sagairt is Pàp,
’G a chuir ris ’n a phlàsd mu ’n cuairt.

Ubhaidh eil’ as leth Mhuire nan gràs, (1)
’S urrainn creideach dheanamh slàn ri uair,
Tha mis’ am chreideamh, gun teagamh gun dàil,
Gu ’n toir sinn air ar naimhdean buaidh.

’Sgeul eile ’s gur h-oil leam gur fìor,
Tha ’n dràsd anns gach tìr mu ’n cuairt,
Gach fear-gleusda bha feumail do ’n righ,
Bhi ’g an ruith feadh gach crìoch air ruaig.<eng>


(1) John Roy adhered to the Roman Catholic Church.


[TD 205]

<gai>Bodaich dhona gun onair, gun bhrigh,
Ach gionach, beag-nì airson duais,
Gabhail fàth oirnn ’s gach aìt anns am bi—
Cuir a’ chuibhle so, Chrìosda! mu ’n cuairt.

Ma thionndas i seannsail an dràsd,
’S gu ’m faigh Frangaich am Flannras buaidh, (1)
Tha m’ earbs as an tairgneachd a bha,
Gu ’n tig armailt ni stàth thair chuan.

Gu ’n toir Fortan dha dìdean le gràs,
Mar fhuair Maois le fàbhar ’Mhuir Ruaigh,
’S gu ’m bidh Deòrsa le dhrealainibh bàit,
Mar bha ’n t-amadan Pharaoh ’s a shluagh.

’N uair bha Israel sgìth ’s an staid ghràis,
Rinneadh Saul an là sin ’n a righ,
Thug e sgiùrsadh le miosguinn is plaigh
Orra féin, air an àl, ’s air an nì.

Is amhuil bha Breatuinn fo bhròn,
O ’n a threig iad a’ chòir ’s an righ,
Ghabh flaitheas rinn corruich ro-mhòr,
Crom-an-donais chaidh ’n seòrs’ an diasg.

A Righ shocraich Muire nan gràs,
Thoir dhomh-sa le bàigh do chluas,
’S mi ’g ùmhladh le ’m ghlùn air an lar,
Gabh athchuinge àraid bhuam.

Cha ’n eil sinn a sireadh ach coir,
Thug Cuigs agus Deòrsa bhuainn;
Reìr do cheartais thoir neart dhuinn is treoir.
Is cum sinn bho fhoirneart sluaigh.<eng>


(1) Our bard had fought in Flanders before taking part with Prince Charles in the rising of 1745.


[TD 206]

CXXIV.

The Stewarts of Kincardine appear to have been imbued with a strong vein of poetic genius, combined with a martial spirit and devoted loyalty to their chief, whom they regarded as their rightful monarch. For, along with the Stewarts of Garth and other families, they were “sib to the King,” in respect of descent—albeit barred—from Alexander Stewart, Earl of Buchan, commonly known as the Wolf of Badenoch, or, <gai>Alasdair Mòr Mac an Righ<eng>—i.e., Big Alister the King’s son. This ode in celebration of the young Prince, and of the gallant clansmen who rose in support of his cause, was composed probably in the Autumn of 1745 by a kinswoman of Colonel John Roy Stewart. She certainly was of a kindred spirit.

<gai>So an tìm tha cuir as domh,
Làn tùchain is cnatain,
Mo dhiùbhail ’s mo chreach! cha b’ e dh’ fheumainn.

Ach bhi guidhe gu làidir,
Le Righ dligheach nan Gaidheal,
Théid a Lunnainn gun dàil uainn le ceuta’,—

An t-òg tionnsgalach gasda,
Prionnsa Tearlach nam baiteal,
Théid mearlach Righ Shasunn a ghéilleadh.

’S ioma leòmhann deas stàtail,
Dhe mo chinne mòr làidir,
Bhios fo ’d bhrataichean bàna ag éirigh.

Na Stiùbhartaich ghasda,
Fìor chuirteil mu ’d bhrataich,
Bidh Iarla Bhòid ’s fir na h-Apunn gu léir leat,—


[TD 207]

Coirneal Ruadh Chinne-Chàirdin,
’S clann uasal a bhràthar,
Thog iad bratach ’s cha ’n fhàilling iad gleus leath’.

’S gur h-e ’n duine a’ Màidseir,
Mac oighre a mhathar, (1)
’N Righ ’g a neartach’ an àird ann an ceuta.

’S beag an t-iongnadh an t-ardan
’Dhol a’ d’ bhathais cho làidir,
’S a liuthad sruth àrd as ’n do leum thu,—

Dh’ fhuil Righ agus Bharain,
Do ’m bu dligheach am fearann,
Do ’n fhuil phrìseil bha fearail ag éirigh.

’Thaobh eile do mhathar,
Tha thu ’bhroilleach nan Granndach,
’N aon teaghlach is fearr tha ’n Strath Spé dhiu.

Dh’ éireadh sud is Iarl Anndrum,
Mar ri Tearlach an tionnsgal,—
’N Righ ’g an greasadh a nall dhuinn a Eirinn.

’N am biodh amhach Righ Deòrsa,
Ann an lamhan Chlann Domhnuill,
Gheibheadh i tobha math còrcach no stéinne.

’N am biodh lamh an fhir ruaidh ort,
Bha mo roghainn-s’ an uachdar,
Gun aon duin’ bhi mu ’n cuairt duibh le chéile.

Am blàr Chòp fhuair thu ’n t-urram,
Bu cheann-feadhn’ thair gach duin’ thu,
’S ann a shamhlaich iad uil’ thu ri Cléibhir.

’S tu gu ’n cuireadh droch sheòl,
Fo champa Righ Deòrsa,
’N ceann ’s na casan ’s na botainn gu léir diu.<eng>


(1) John Roy Stewart and Gillies Macbean—brothers in arms, were near relatives—their mothers having been daughters of the House of Kyllachie.


[TD 208]

<gai>Bidh e làidir ’g ar còmhnadh,
Dun Tuilm le Chlann Domhnuill,
Thig Sir Alasdair Mòr oirnn a Sléibhte.

Thig Mac Mhic Ailein a Muideart,
Mac Mhic Alasdair ’Chnoideart,
’S Mac Mhic Raoghnuill, cha sòradh leis éirigh;

Agus Tighearna Struthain,
Thig e nuas oirnn o ’n ghiùbhsaich,
Bidh e fein ’s a chuid cùirte gu leir ann;

Agus Tighearn òg Chluainidh,
Leis an t-sròl-bhrataich uaine
’S Clann Mhuirich mu ’n cuairt dà gu léir dà.

Bidh Clann Domhnuill ’n an uidheam,
Cuir na ruaig ris à bhruthach,
Le ’n arma ’s glan-uidheam aig Seurlus.

Bidh Clann Domhnuill ’s Clann Chamashroin,
Sud na seòid a tha ainmeil,
Am fìor-thoiseach na h-armailt’ ag éirigh.

’S ma’s a beò mi cóig bliadhna,
Chi mi fathasd droch dhìol
Air luchd-sgathaidh nam bian bharr na spréidhe.

Air luchd chasagan dearga,
’S Mailisi Earraghàidheal, (1)
Chi sibh fhathasd droch àird air na béisdean.

Gar ’m faic mis’ e le ’m shùilean,
Gu ’m bi Dia leibh ’s mo dhùrachd,
’S cha dean luaidhe no fùdar bonn beud duibh.<eng>


(1) The Argyleshire Militia were dispersed in parties over various districts in the North, which were favourable to the Jacobite cause, where they rendered themselves very obnoxious, especially, of course, to those of the inhabitants who had relatives with the Prince.


[TD 209]

<gai>Gar am faic mis’ a chaoidh e,
Ma thionndas a’ chuibhle,
Bidh Sasunnaich ’s Guimhnich an éiginn.

Bidh luaidhe ri earbull,
Luchd chasagan dearga,
Aig Friseilich ainmeil nan geur-lann.

’S mi air thurus ’s a bhraighe,
Cian fada o ’m chàirdean,
Far nach cluinn mi ach rànail an fhéidh ann.

Tha mi sgìth ’s mi làn airsneal,
Nàile fhìn! theid mi dhachaidh,
Gu dùthaich an fhasgaidh ’s nan geuga.

Gu tìr nam fear ùra,
Luchd sgapaidh an fhùdair,
’S nach diùltadh an crùn do Righ Seurlus.

’S a Thearlaich òig Stiùbhairt,
Chi sinne an crùn ort,
’S bidh tu fhathasd a sgiùrsadh nam bèisdean.

Tha Seumas òg uasal,
Leis an Righ mar bu dual da,
Sàr cheannard air sluagh an t-òg treubhach.

Agus Uilleam òg Ghart, (1)
Mo dhùrachd dhuit thachairt,
An Righ sin ’g ad sheachnadh o bhéisdean.

Sàr cheannard an t-saighdeir,
’S cridhe soilleir gun fhoill doibh,
’S gu meal sibh bhur n-oighreachd le chéile.<eng>


(1) William Stewart of Garth, who was the grandfather of the author of the “Sketches.”


[TD 210]

CXXV.

The old friend—Mrs Davidson—to whom I have referred repeatedly as having been well versed in the songs and legends of Badenoch, informed me that she used to be told how, one day, the sound of the bagpipes was heard in the township of Catlodge—Caitleag—and the men set out for the south, under the green banner of Cluny, which had been unfurled for Prince Charlie. The clansmen were accompanied by a crowd of women and children as far as the Drum-Chrithionn, a high exposed ridge, over which the road to Dalwhinnie passes. As they took their way, the company ever and anon joined in some chorus led by the pipers. It is almost forgotten that this was customary at funerals, as well as on the occasion of military marches. The contingent of the Macphersons—among whom were the relatives of my informant—at first joined their voices in this pensive refrain, which in recent times has—like certain other popular melodies—become identified with the persons and affairs of a single locality:

<gai>Cha tìll cha tìll, cha tìll sinn tuillidh,
Gus an crùnar an Righ, cha tìll sinne.<eng>

This heavy strain had such a depressing effect upon their spirits, that it was soon changed for the livelier measures of a favourite marching song,—albeit, it too had its suggestions of sorrow:

<gai>C’ arson a bhiodh sinn muladach,
C’ arson a bhiodh sinn brònach,
C’ arson a bhiodh sinn muladach,
Gu ’m falbh sinn uile còmhladh.

’S ioma bean a bhios gun mhac,
Piuthair bhios gun bhrathair aic’,
’S maighdean òg gun leannan aic’,
Ma leanas sinn mar tha sinn.<eng>


[TD 211]

On the <gai>Drum-Chrithionn<eng> eighteen husbands in this company bade farewell to their wives and families. The sorrow-stricken women said nothing to hinder the departure of the clansmen, but a heart-rending scene took place, in the course of which they gave loud expression to their grief.

In the songs and scattered stanzas connected with “Cluny of the Forty-Five”—whose career called forth numerous bardic tributes—abundant evidence will be found of the enthusiastic spirit of loyalty to the exiled Royal Family, which prevailed in Badenoch.


CXXVI.

The history of the first regiment of Fraser’s Highlanders—the old Seventy-Eighth—forms one of the most illustrious chapters in the annals of the Highland regiments. Within a few weeks of receiving his letters of service, the young Chief of the Frasers, though landless and without resources other than lay in the attachment of his people, was in command of 1500 men, who probably have never been surpassed in the qualities that make brave and trustworthy soldiers.

Among those who enrolled themselves in this famous body, there was a considerable contingent of Macphersons, who were attracted to it in consequence of the close alliance that subsisted at this time between the houses of Lovat and Cluny; for it will be remembered that Ewen Macpherson of the ’45 was son-in-law to Simon, Lord Lovat.

The following verses, composed in celebration of the return of this regiment—albeit many of its warriors had elected to settle in the new country—


[TD 212]

after the war, which had been brought to a triumphant close by the crowning victory for the British arms upon the plains of Abraham, have special reference to three members of the Clan Vurich who had been honourably connected with it. One of these, fourth in command at the outset, was Captain John Macpherson, younger brother to Cluny. Another was the Rev. Robert Macpherson, of the Banchor family—the redoubtable Parson Robert of whom General Stewart says, in alluding to the high moral tone and indomitable courage of the men:—“Their religious discipline was strictly attended to by their very respectable chaplain, the Rev. Robert Macpherson, who followed every movement, and was indefatigable in his clerical duties.” Upon the reduction of the regiment, Parson Robert settled in his native country, occupying in succession, among other holdings, the farms of Aberarder and Cromara, and filling the post of missionary for Brae Badenoch and Brae Lochaber under the Royal Bounty Committee.

The third of those Macphersons to whom particular allusion has been made, was John, who acted as orderly sergeant to Wolfe at the Battle of Quebec, and had the distinguished honour of having received the dying hero into his arms, when he fell mortally wounded. Soon after, a commission was worthily conferred upon this brave man, who was possessed of great physical strength. On retiring from the army he turned his attention to farming, like mostly all Highland officers on half-pay, and was popularly known as <gai>“Caiptean,”<eng> or <gai>“Othaichear,” Bhlar-agaidh.<eng> Here, at Blaragie, he died in the autumn after Waterloo, aged 88 years. Many will remember his grand-daughters—<gai>“Misseachan Bhlaragaidh”<eng>—gentle and retiring old


[TD 213]

maids, who were held in much esteem. He and his wife were both of good families. His son—father of the <gai>Misseachan<eng>—also an officer in the army, married a daughter of Maclean, tenant of Pitmain, one of whose sons was Sir John Maclean, and another was that Captain Maclean, who married the unfortunate L. E. L. The old tacksman of Pitmain was married four times, and as several of his wives were related to each other, his children were in such a ramification of consanguinity and kinship, that the old gentleman was nick-named, “the father of confusion.”

This lay of war has at least the merit of enumerating scenes where the valiant deeds were done that went far towards establishing the fame of the Highland regiments, casting, indeed, a halo of martial glory over the plaided warriors of the North.


<gai>AN DEIGH QUEBEC.

’S a nis thainig somhchair air gunnachan mora,
Gun fuil bhi ’g a dortadh air muir no air tir;
Tha brataichean-srol’ air am pasgadh an seomar,
’N ait caismeachd a’ chomhraig, tha orain na sith’.

Ceud failt do na gillean tha ’m feachd Choirneil Friseil,
’S mor aoibhneas iad thighinn, ’s Mac Shimidh ’nan ceann;
’S ceud failte le furan do dh’ airmuinn bu duineil,
Dhe fion-fhuil Chlann Mhuirich—’s fhad chluinn teadh an ainm.

Thar fairg’ nan tonn du-ghlas chaidh ’n comhlan nach diultadh—
Air na thuit anns an ruaig dhuibh bidh cuimhne gu brath;
’S na dilsich tha tilleadh le cliu as an iomairt—
Gu ’n lion sinn gu cridheil cuach-dhibh’ air an slainnt’.


[TD 214]

Bu tric bha sibh marrsadh feadh choilltean is fasach,
Mu bhruachan St Lawrence ri “bivouac” sgith;
’S air oidhcheachan geamhraidh, gun fhasgadh bhi laimh ribh,
Bu tric chum sibh gearrd dh’ ainneoin anrath nan sian.

Sud b’ eididh nan diumhlach, feille-beag ’s breacan-guaille,
Air an criosadh gu dumhail—bonaid du-ghorm ’s cocad;
Bhur musgaidean croma ’cuir fhaileas le ’n loinnear,—
’S bu bhoidheach an sealladh ’n uair dh’ eight’ am parad.

’S iad na fleasgaich bu diulant’, chuir naimhdean ar dùthcha
Air ruaig feadh nan cuiltean ’n uair ruisgteadh an lann;
’S gur iad na fir ghleusda, an reisimeid gle-mhath,
Air oitir Rugha Bhreatuinn thug geilleadh air cach.

Air traighe nan sùmainn, troimh chreagan ’s troimh mhuran,
Bu dian thug sibh ’n t-ionnsuidh chuir Louisburg fo striochd;
’S mar leomhann an comhnaigh a chum sibh gach comhdhail,
’M Point Levi, ’s an Orleans, ’s aig Montmorenci.

Gu ’n teirigeadh cainnt dhomh a dh’ inns’, ged bu bhard mi,
Na gaisgeachd a dhearbh sibh air Aird Abraham;
Fras theine bho naimhdibh sior-thanach’ bhur reangan,
Mu ’n d’ fhuair sibh ’n <eng>command<gai> chuir ga h-amhluadh Montcalm.


[TD 215]

Bha Frangaich is Coilltich air gach taobh is mu ’r coinnimh,
Mur dhuilleagan foghair ’g am froiseadh le gaoith;
Ach, mo leir-chreach mar thachair! ged bhuannaich e ’n latha,
Bha Wolfe, an deagh cheannard, ’n a laigh air an raon.

Iain Oig Mhic-a-phearsoin, dha ’m bu dual bhi ’n Dail Einich,
’S e do ghiùlan bha smearail an gleachd ri uchd feum:
’N ad achlaisean laidir a ghlac thu an sar-fhear,
’N uair fhuair e an cradh-lot nach slanuicheadh leigh.

’S an sud bha luchd-duchais nach saradh roimh chruadal,
Caiptean Iain bu shuairce, a Cluainidh nan geug;
’S am foghlumach dìleas, a’ m’ Beannachoir a fhreumhaich,—
Fear-teagaisg na firinn, ’s fior chibeir an treud’.

’S gu ’n iarr sinn saoghal maireann do ’n Righ tha ’s a’ chaithear,
’Shliochd rioghail Mhic Alpein bha ’n Albainn o cheun;
Gur mor thug e fhabhar dha laochraidh nan Garbh-chrioch,
Air sgath na buaidh-larach air ar-fhaich Quebec.<eng>

T. S.


CXXVII.

Due to many influences operating at home and abroad, it gradually came about that Jacobitism ceased to have a practical bearing upon the lives of


[TD 216]

the clansmen, and became a fading sentiment even in the case of the families who had been most devoted to the cause of the Stewarts. The wondrous success which had attended the raising of the Highland Regiments, in accordance with the policy so happily initiated by Pitt, had doubtless much to do with effecting this change. Highlanders recognised that the sovereign for whom they fought, was after all a descendant of the ancient Royal Family of Scotland. They had no particular regard for the doctrine of Divine Right, which indeed had by no means been adhered to in the past, in the case of succession to the throne. Nay, even in the succession of their chiefs, the law of primogeniture had not been invariably recognised of old. George III. was as much the visible Head of the state, and the Father of his people, as any of his predecessors on the throne; while his plucky conduct in the times of national stress, which came thick and fast, had endeared him to the people.

Whatever the various causes, certain it is that chiefs, and scions of Highland families, who had suffered for King James, took commissions quite freely in the service of King George; and the rank and file of the sons of the mountains were not slow to follow the example of their natural leaders. Military service in time past, had a fascination for all classes of Highlanders, who were to be found in almost every European army.

The military spirit, which was rampant in Badenoch throughout the long Napoleonic wars, had been fostered by the Gordon family, chiefly in support of the two great regiments with which George, Marquis of Huntly, was connected—the Forty-Second and the Ninety-Second. The youth of the Highlands


[TD 217]

showed no reluctance to enlist in sufficient numbers. Of this fact, the embodiment of the Seventy-Ninth need only be referred to as a striking illustration.

While it is well known that the Highland troops had bards by whom their deeds were sung, and by whom expression was given to their various moods, it is to be regretted that so few of these songs have been preserved. They mostly all perished with the pensioners, for whom they still continued to have an interest.

It may be remarked that a certain vein of grumbling, present in some of the soldiers’ songs that have come down us, is not to be taken too seriously. These notes of repining are to be taken as echoes of talk around the camp fires and in winter quarters, expressing feelings natural to men often poorly clad, and ill fed, who had to endure severe hardships, and restraints almost equally irksome.

Among the scraps and fragments of song that belong to this period, here is a spirited catch set to a favourite marching chorus:—

<gai>’S math leam-fhìn tha ’n Samhradh ’tighinn,
Bidh sinn cridheil sunndach;
Bidh sinn air an t-sentry fhuar,
Ri broilleach tuath na Frainge.

Carson a bhiod sinn muladach, etc.<eng>


CXXVIII.

It often happened that men drawn by ballot to serve in the militia, had small aptitude for the military life, and took up the sword sorely against their will.


[TD 218]

<gai>’S fheudar domh bi togail orm,
Cha ’n fhaodar fuireach, feumar falbh;
’S fheudar domh bhi togail orm,
Dh’ fheuch am faigh mi fuasgladh.

Cha b’ e an daorach no a’ ghòraich,
A chuir mise dh’ arm Righ Deòrsa,
Ach an tiocaid bhi ’n am phòcaid,
’S mì gun doigh air fuasgladh.<eng>


CXXIX.

By the fair sex, the departure of so many of the youth of their acquaintance to take service under the King, was regarded with mingled feelings. This verse tells of general gloom and sorrow.

<gai>Tha na caileagan fo mhulad,
’S tha iad uile brònach,—
Liuthad fleasgach bòidheach, dealbhach,
Tha falbh fo arm Righ Deòrsa.<eng>


CXXX.

When the Ninety-second Regiment—popularly known as <gai>Reisimeid an Diùic,<eng> or the Duke’s Regiment—was raised, one at least of the recruits was sorely grudged to it:—

<gai>’S cha ’n eil reisimeid fo ’n chrùn,
Dhà nach dùraiginns’ mo bheannachd thoirt,
Ach Reisimeid Dhiùic Gordan—
Bho ’n ’s i thug òg mo leannan bhuam.<eng>


[TD 219]

CXXXI.

This ballad expresses sentiments very different from those indicated in the preceding fragments, for the regiments that had bereft the country of the flower of its youth. Here our songstress, whilst lamenting, as needs must be, the absence of her lover, is filled with martial enthusiasm as she thinks of him fighting the battles of the King; and highly applauds the profession of arms, holding in scorn the attention of wooers who followed the peaceful pursuits of husbandry. Her song is strung in a truly lyric key, and breathes a chivalrous spirit. The authoress was Lilian Mackintosh, whose family had sprung from the Borlums. She was described to me as, <gai>“Piuthair mathar dha Iain Ruadh an Clachair,”<eng> i.e., “The sister of John Roy the mason’s mother.” Natives of Kingussie will remember the tall, handsome form, and gentlemanly bearing, of old John Roy.

<gai>Ged tha ’n Nollaig a’ tighinn,
Cha bhi mi cridheil gu ceòl,
Cha ’n éisd mi ceòl fìdhle,
’S cha ’n fhaighear mi’san tigh osd’.
Cha ’n éisd mi ceòl fidhle.
No nì ’s am bi spòrs,
’S mi fo chumhadh an fhleasgaich
So ghreas mi gu fhòd.

Tha mo chion air a’ ghille,
Dh’ fhàg fo iomadan mi,
’S chaoidh cha ghabh mi fear eile,
Gus an tig thu mi rìs;
Gus an tig thu ’mi dhachaidh,
Le do phass agad sgrìobht’,
B’ annsa pòg bho d’ bheul daithte,
Na n’ bheil aca do nì.


[TD 220]

Tha mo chion air a ghaisgeach
Is maisich tha beò,
Dha ’m math an tig breacan,
Féile preasach is còt;
Ite ’n eòin an deadh-chleachdadh,
Air an fhleasgach is boidhch’,
’S thug mi gaol dhuit gun teagamh,
A ghreas mi gu ’n fhòd.

Tha mo ghaol-sa an còmhnaidh,
Fo chòt’ aig an righ,
’S gur e ’m fleasgach is bòidhche,
Thug Diùc Gòrdain bhuan fhìn.
Ach na ’n tigt’ thu air fòrlach,
’S mi gu ’m pòs’ tu gun nì,
’S ged a bhiodh tu a d’ Choirneal,
Ghaoil, bu leòir dhuit-sa mi.

’S lìonar maighdean òg uasal,
Tha ’s an uair so gun mhiadh,
’S mur pòs iad ri buachaillean,
Cha ’n ’eil daoin’-uails’ ann d’ an trian,
’S ma ’s a fiù leò bhi luaidh riu,
Balaich shuarach nach fhiach,
’S ann tha na fiùranan suairce,
’S an ruaig fo an Righ.<eng>


CXXXII.

Here I may be allowed to insert a gay and gallant lilt that I heard sung, and took down, long ago, under singularly appropriate circumstances, which always continue to give it very pleasing associations in my mind. In the second last couplet, Glen Etive is mentioned, but I have no information as to the authorship. Nor am I aware that it ever appeared

[TD 221]

in print until I contributed it along with other pieces from my MSS. to the “Highland Monthly.” The young soldier sings of his musket as a bride.

<gai>A ri li o, ci h-órannan,
A ri horó, mo Cheiteag!
A ri li o, ci h-órannan.

Latha dhomh bhi sraid-imeachd
’S mi mach am braigh Dhun-Eudainn;
Thachair orm na saighdearan,
A dh’ fhaighneachd mi ’s a’ Bheurla.

Thachair orm, &c.
’S gu ’n du’irt mi riu ’s a’ Ghailig,
“Co dh’ araich luchd an fhéile?”

’S ann thu’irt iad gur i ’Ghaidhealtachd
An t-àit’ a b’ fhearr fo ’n ghréine.

’S gu’n d’ thug iad a ’n tigh-osda mi,
An t-òr gu’n d’ ghlac mi fhein ann.

Thug iad dhomh ri phòsadh
Nighean Dheors’ mar chéile.

’S ann thug iad dhomh ri ghiùlan,
Te dhubh nach sgùr i fein dhomh.

’Ga giùlan air mo ghualainn,
’S nach fhuaghail i dhomh mo léine.

Ach ’fhir theid thar na cuaintean,
Na ceil mo dhuan nach leugh thu.

Mo shoraidh-sa gu m’ mhathair,
’S i dh’ araich gun éis mi.

Gu m’phiuthair is gu m’ bhraithrean,
’S gu Mairi bhàin, mo cheud ghaol.

Mo mholach gu na Frangaich,
’N an campaichean cha téid sinn.


[TD 222]

’S olc a chuir an òige rium,
’S a’ ghòraiche le chéile.

Chuir mi féile cuachach orm,
’S an còta ruadh mar éididh.

’S tric bha mi ’s tu sugradh,
’Am bruthaichean Ghlinn Eite.

Ag iomain a chruidh ghuanaich,
’S ’gam fuadach feadh an t-sléibhe.<eng>


CXXXIII.

Archibald Stewart, a native of Glen Avon, on the Duke of Gordon’s property, had enlisted, and was abroad with his regiment—no doubt, the 92nd—when he composed this ballad, which is so truly characteristic of its class. We have the stout and fearless soldier on his lonely guard in a distant land, musing upon the days of his youth, and upon the free and joyous life which he led with his early associates upon his native mountains. It is very probable that our soldier bard was a grand-nephew, or other near connection, of Colonel John Roy Stewart, who had a brother named Archibald.

<gai>Beir an t-soraidh uam féin,
Gu àros an fhéidh
Far an robh mi ’nan déigh ’s mi òg;

Gu Beinn Athfhinn (1) nan stùchd,
Nam feadan ’s nan lùb,
Far an loisgear am fùdar gorm;

Seal mu ’n éireadh a ghrian,
Ged bhiodh sneachd air an t-sliabh,
Chluinnteadh langan nam fiadh ’s a’ cheo.<eng>


(1) Ben Avon.


[TD 223]

<gai>Sud a’ bhuidheann a b’ àilt’,
’Dol a dh’ ionnsuidh paràd,
’S cha ’n iarradh sibh màidsear oirbh.

Cha ’n iarradh sibh geard,
Ach na creagan a b’ àird’,
’S cha bu chladhaire ’thàladh oirbh.

Bu mhath fradharc ’ur sùl,
’S b’ fhurarach air ’ur cùl,
’S gaoth fhiar nan stùchd m’ ’ur sròin.

’S bho ’n a thàrladh dhomh ’n dràst’,
Gu bheil mi air geard,
Olaidh mi bhur deoch-slàint mu ’m falbh;

Deoch-slàinte mo dhùthch’,
’S nan gillean air thùs—
Luchd-a-shiubhail nan stuchd-bheann garbh.

’S ’n àm dhomh ’suidhe ’s taigh-òsd’,
’Gabhail drama le dòigh,
Bi’dh ’n druma dhubh ’g ar n-òrduch’ falbh.

’S ged gheibh sinn rùm agus beòir,
Is fìon dearg ann ri h-òl,
’S beag mo thlachd de ’n phòit a bh’ ann.

’S ma thàrlas ’s an àm,
Gu ’n téid e ’n ar ceann,
Tri cheud diubh gun taing ar duais.

Cha b’ e sud fasan mo dhùthch’,
N’ àm a’ bhuideal a’ rùsg,
’S iad a shuidheadh gun chùram falbh.

’S ged tha mo ghunn’ air dheagh ghleus,
Cha dean mi leath’ feum,
’S fada mi bho na féidh ’s an àm.


[TD 224]

Cha ’n fhaigh sinn coileach no cearc,
No tarmachan breac,
Cha b’ àros doibh <eng>“coast”<gai> na Fraing’.

Ach na ’m bithinns’ mar chleachd,
An Ionarloimhne nam breac,
Gheibhteadh coileach is cearc ’s a’ ghleann;

Agus bradan math bàn
An Coire Cheileir a snàmh
Air an tric thug mo lamh-sa toll.

S na’m bithinn-s’ mar bha,
Fo stiopall nan càrn,
Cha “mhuntaiginn” geard ri m’ bheò.

Cha “mhuntaiginn” geard,
S cha sheasainn paràd,
S cha ’n fhaicteadh gu bràth,
Fhad ’s bu mhaireann mi slàn,
Còta màdair ’g a charamh orm.<eng>


[TD 225]

SECTION SEVENTH.

SONGS OF DEATH.

Passionate regret for the disappearance of well-accustomed people and things, and no less on account of separation from once familiar places, is a characteristic deeply implanted in the Celtic nature. And so it is, that tributes to the dead, in the form of elegiac song, constitute by far the largest section of the Poetry of Badenoch, as it does, perhaps, with respect to Gaelic Poetry taken as a whole. “Without the meed of some melodious tear,” few or none in any way remarkable, whether as regards social position, beauty of form, strength, benevolence, or other estimable qualities of mind or body, were allowed to pass away in any district of the Highlands. Least of all could this happen in Badenoch, where every township had its bard.

In some of the strains of this class may be discerned traces of the ancient <gai>coronach,<eng> or funeral dirge, in which with rhythmic iterations, apt to become tedious, the greatness and the virtues of the deceased are detailed in terms of excessive panegyric, along with full account of the sorrows of friends and dependants. Here it may be proper to remind the reader, that pipe-music at funerals, which had nearly succumbed to influences that were dominant throughout the greater part of the Highlands about


[TD 226]

the middle of the nineteenth century, was, in bygone times, accompanied with the wail of human voices. This wild lament led by sybils known as <gai>Cailleachan Tuiridh,<eng> i.e.—mourning crones—was analagous to the Irish <gai>Caoine.<eng>

But it is in pieces pervaded by the ballad element that we come under the subtle power of the Gaelic elegiac muse at her best. This peculiar note, or quality, is at once recognisable wherever met with. Often present in a single snatch of song, we are brought in contact with an inexpressible intensity of personal feeling, clothed in language of etherial grace. Even in the long and more conventional death songs, however, this exquisite vein of pathos may usually be found ever and anon breaking forth in passages of pictured grief, bathed in lurid light that flashes upon the mind like glimpses of a mystic region, weird, and wild, and not of earth.


CXXXIV.

This quatrain of antique cast was often on the lips of my companion through many a summer and autumn hour on the sunny braes above Nuide,—Alasdair Mòr Loinn an fhuarain. (1) He told me that it formed part of an elegy composed by a man belonging to Upper Badenoch, upon the loss of his son, who was drowned in Loch Killin, at the head of Stratherrick.

<gai>Mo mhìle mollachd agad, a Chill-fhinn!
Mo mhìle mollachd aig do ghlinn ’s do shrath;
Mo mhìle mollachd aig do uisg fuar,
Thug bhuaim mo mhac math.<eng>


(1) Big Alister of the Well-flat.


[TD 227]

CXXXV.

The ancient burying-ground of <gai>Biallid<eng> was called <gai>Cladh Pheadail<eng> or <gai>Pheadailt,<eng>—both forms of the name being colloquial renderings of <gai>Peadar,<eng> i.e., St Peter. It is alleged to have been the church-yard connected with a pre-historic parish termed <gai>Sgìr Eadail.<eng> Colloquially, the strengthening t is often added to the name, making it <gai>Eadailt<eng> or <gai>Pheadailt.<eng> According to legend, this parish embraced the whole of Glen Truim, and the valley of <gai>Loch Errachd,<eng> including an extensive flat of good land now covered entirely by the waters of that loch! However this may be, it is abundantly evident that in the immediate neighbourhood of <gai>Cladh Pheadail,<eng> there resided in former times a large population. These bygone inhabitants, sprung from the ancient house of Pitmain, constituted a tribe of the Macphersons, distinguished by the name of <gai>Bialaidich Bhus-dubh,<eng> (1)—so called from a certain swarthiness about the mouth, suggestive of the gean. The situation of several of their townships can still be clearly traced by the usual pathetic vestiges.

This ancestral habitat of their race, the Bialaidich familiarly spoke of as <gai>“Fo na Chreig,”<eng> i.e., Under the Rock. When far away, their thoughts would fondly revert to their old home beneath the kindly shelter of Craig Dhu, and, in death remembering <gai>Cladh Pheadail,<eng> they would solemnly enjoin upon relatives to carry their remains thither.

This stanza, replete with elegiac tenderness, contains the only allusion to <gai>Cladh Pheadail,<eng> occurring in Badenoch song, so far as I ever heard. I fear it is now quite impossible to ascertain who this


(1) The swarthy-mouthed Biallids,


[TD 228]

youth may have been, who was laid to rest in this quiet ground so long ago, and whose early death was so plaintively bewailed. Whether he belonged to the Family of Crubin—as I think most probable—or of Invernahavon, or of Phoness, who can tell? This old strain has come down to us, giving forth a true note of natural sorrow.

<gai>Cadal sàmhach do’ n bhradan
’N Eas an Sgamhain ’s an dàmhair,
Bho ’n chaidh an t-Iain òg-sa thasgadh
An Cladh Pheadail so thall.<eng>


CXXXVI.

This is another wail of ancient sorrow that welled in song from immemorial lips. There is something peculiarly affecting in those single stanzas of death-song, so instinct with human feeling though the persons and circumstances that occasioned them are unknown.

<gai>A Challuim òig Mhic-a-phearsoin,
’S leam is fada na tràithean,
Bho na mhaduinn Di-Domhnaich
Bha do chomhra ’g ad fhàgail;
Bho ’n a ghlacadh le eug thu,
’S goirt an sgeul ud air do chairdean;
Bhagair Dia leis an t-shlat oirnn.
Chain sinn Caiptean ’nar pàirtidh.<eng>


CXXXVII.

The demise of a wealthy individual of exceedingly penurious habits, who had denied herself the actual necessaries of life, was made the subject of this biting sarcasm.


[TD 229]

<gai>Dh’ eug thu, ’s cha ruigeadh tu leas e.—
Do chisteachan mine air dhinneadh le ’d chasan,
’S do churasain ime air dhinneadh le ’d bhasan.—
’S dh’ eug thu, ’s cha ruigeadh tu leas e.<eng>


CXXXVIII.

The MacDhonnachaidh Ruaidh of this ballad, belonged to the Macphersons of Invertromie, who were distinguished as the <eng>Sliochd Thómais.<eng> He was a noted hunter, and occasionally, perhaps, a freebooter. How he met his death is unknown; but having died young, his widow was forced by friends to marry against her will the tacksman of <gai>Ard-broileach,<eng> a well-to-do agriculturist from Moray. Very unhappy, although mistress of a comfortable home, she mourned in bitter grief for the death of her first love. It is related that often she would ascend <gai>Tom Barrai<eng> (1)—then a bare summit near her new home—and from there survey the scene of her early married life, and the chapel-yard of St Colman—<gai>Cladh Machalmaig<eng>—where her husband was buried. At length, having fallen into a weak state of health, she, one day, requested two maids to assist her to this favourite spot. Resting on a plaid, she gazed long across the Valley of the Spey to Invertromie, and the hills so often traversed by her daring hunter, sang some snatches of this plaintive elegy which she had composed for him; and then she quietly breathed her last, and was carried home a corpse.

The main facts of the story, at least, are known to be authentic, and the persons referred to can be


(1) The wooded height above the East Terrace of Kingussie.


[TD 230]

traced in various records connected with Badenoch for the first half of the eighteenth century.

<gai>’Mhic Dhonnochaidh Ruaidh! gur tu th’ air m’ aire,
’Mhic Dhonnochaidh Ruaidh! gur tu th’ air m’ aire,
’Mhic Dhonnochaidh Ruaidh! gur tu th’ air m’ aire,
Cha bhiodh tu beò is mi air aran.
Theirminn horo! ’ghraidhein ghaolaich
Theirminn horo! ’ghraidhein
Theirminn horo! ’ghraidhein ghaolaich,
’Fhir ’mhuineil ghile ’s a’ chinn chraobhaich.

Fhuair mi sud ’sna ceithir làithe,
Ceithir daimh mhòr, ceithir aighean,
Ceithir saic de dh’ iasg na h-amhuinn,
Gu ’m bu nèarach bean òg fhuair leithid.

Bu tu ’m fear mór ’san robh an tomad,
Bhiodh tu null ’s a nall tre Thromaidh
Le do mhorghath ’s le do chromaig,
Mharbhadh tu ’n t-iasg air bharr nan tonna.

Dhìreadh tu Croidhlea mhór nan aighean,
Gun ghreim air aon dhos fhraoich na raineich,
Mharbhadh tu fiadh air Ruigh an Lonaidh,
’S dh’ fhàgadh tu ’n gaorr aig an fheannaig.

’Nuair a thiginn ’stigh an ruighe,
Dh’ aithni’inn do bhothan ’na shuidhe,
Bhiodh slat, bhiodh morghath, bhiodh lìon ann,
’S gunna caol am bac an t-suidhe.

Bu tu mo luaidh na ’n robh thu agam,
Ged nach d’ fhuair mi dhiot ach sealan,
Coisich’ dian air Druim Pheathraich,
Is moch a shiùbhladh Coir’ a’ Bhealaich. (1)<eng>


(1) Both these places are on the ridge between Ruthven and Glen Tromie.


[TD 231]

<gai>Fhuair mi sealgair-sithinn suaircean,
Fhuair mi rithisd sàr mhac thuathanaich,
Chuireadh ciste-mhine suas bhuam,
Ach ged a fhuair cha b’ e mo luaidh e.

’S mi mo shuidh’ air Tom Barrai’,
Chi mi ’n t-ait ’s an robh mi fallain;
Gheibhinn teine mòr ’g am gharadh—
’S bidh mis’ an nochd mar ri ’m leannan.<eng>

Some say that this beautiful stanza belongs to <gai>Bean ’ic Dhonnachaidh Ruaidh<eng>’s elegy—

<gai>Chaill mo shuilean a bhi meallach,
Chaill mo ghruaidhean snuadh na fala,
Tha da thrian an osain falamh,
’S toil teine mór ’s mo gharadh.<eng>


CXXXIX.

The subject of these exquisite elegiac verses by Colonel John Roy Stewart, was Christian Menzies, wife of William Mackintosh of Mackintosh. She was the daughter of Sir Alexander Menzies, Bart., and was possessed of many estimable qualities which greatly endeared her to all with whom she came in contact. After her lamented death, which took place at Chanonry, i.e., Fortrose,—<gai>“An taobh ud thall de ’n Gheòp,”<eng> her broken-hearted husband fell into declining health, and in a few years followed her to the grave, dying in 1741. This chief who, like his lady, was much beloved, was succeeded by his brother, the husband of Ann Farquharson of Invercauld, whose martial proclivities earned for her the sobriquet of Colonel Anne.


[TD 232]

<gai>Cia iad na dée ’s na Dùilean treun,
Théid leam-sa ’san sgeul bhròin?
Tha ’ghealach fòs, ’s na reultan glan,
’S a’ ghrian fo smal gach lò;
Gach craobh, gach coill’, gach bean us cloinn,
Dha ’m beil ’nam broinn an deò,
Gach luibh, gach feur, gach nì ’s gach spréidh,
Mu ’n tì rinn boisge mòr.

Mar choinneal chéir’, ’s i lasadh treun,
Mar eàrrr na gréin’ ro’ nòin,
Bha reul na mais’, fo shiantaibh deas,
A nis thug frasan mòr;
Oir bhris na tuinn ’s na tobair bhuinn,
’S le mulad dhrùigh na neòil,
’S e lagaich sinn, ’s ar n-aigne tinn,
’S gun rùith ar cinn le deòir.

Mu ’n rìbhinn àilt nan ioma gràs,
A choisinn gràdh an t-slòigh,
Mo bheud gu bràth do sgeula bàis,
An taobh ud thall de ’n Gheòp, (1)
Ainnir ghasd’ nan gorm-shùl dait’,
’S nan gruaidh air dhreach nan ròs,
’S e do chuir fo lic a chlaoidh mo neart,
’S a dh’ fhàg mi ’m feasd gun treòir.

Do chorp geal, seang, mar lili bhàin
’S e ’n deis’ a’ chàradh ’n sròl,
A nis a ta gach neach fo chràdh,
’S tu ’n ciste chlàr nam bòrd;
A ghéug nam buadh is àillidh snuadh,
Gur mis’ tha truagh ’s nach beò,
Do chùimhn’ air chruas, ri linn nan sluagh,
Gur cinnte’ dh’ fhuasglas deòir.<eng>


(1) The Moray Firth.


[TD 233]

<gai>Tha Mac-an-Tòisich nan each seang,
’S nam bratach srannmhor sròil,
Gun aobhar gàirdeachais ach cràdh,
M’ a ghràdh ’s nach eil i beò;
A ribhinn shuairc’ a b’ àillidh snuadh,
O Chaisteal Uaimh (1) nan còrn,
An gallan réidh o cheannard treun
An t-sloinne Mheinnich mhòir.<eng>


CXL.

The following death-song is connected with the parish of Alvie. The subject of it was a young man named Donald Macgregor, who was drowned in fording the Spey on the night whose morrow would have been his marriage day. His betrothed true-love, who composed this strain of unutterable woe, wandered about the country in a state of mental derangement, and soon died.

<gai>Cha teid mi ’thigh na cuideachda.
Tha mulad air mo chlaoidh,
Nach fhaic mi Domhnull Griogarach,
Dha ’n tig an t-osan gearr.

Gur math thig feile ’s bonaid duit
An coinneamh nam fear ùr;
’S a nis o ’n dhealaich comunna,
Gur coltach gur e ’m bàs.

Tha do chairdean fhein an diomb rium,
’S gur anacarrach an tùrn;
Mo ghruaidhean tha air rùsgadh,
’S mo shùilean ’s gann gur léir.<eng>


(1) Castle Weem, the seat of Menzies of Menzies.


[TD 234]

<gai>Bho ’n chaidh do chiste dhùnadh oirnn
Le ceangail dlùth is céir,
’S ann ’s coltach a ri òinseich mi,
Nach cumadh stòld’ i-fhéin.

Mar phelican ’s an fhàsach mi,
Mar chailleach-oidhch’ nan gleann,
Mar bharr an fhraoich ’n a theine,
Tha mo chridhe air a chràidh.

Mar fhiadh an glac nan aonaichean,
Mar choille chaill a blàth,
Mar sud a rinn do ghaol-sa dhomh,
Gun oidhche dhe mo shlàint’.

’S gu ’n siùbhlainn féill’ is clachan leat,
’S gach crois tha’s an Taoibh-tuath;
Ach fear do dhealbh ’s do choltaich,
Cha ’n fhaic mi measg an t-sluaigh.

Sùil chorrach ghorm ’n ad aoduinn,
’S mar chaorunn slat do ghruaidh;
’S mo ghaol air d’ aghaidh àluinn,
Ged tha thu ’n nochd ’s an uaigh.<eng>


CXLI.

Ewen Macpherson of Cluny, who is almost invariably alluded to as “Cluny of the ’45,” was born at Nuide in 1706. At the age of thirty-six years, and during the lifetime of his father, who survived until 1746, he married Janet, daughter of Lord Lovat. For nine years after Culloden he remained in concealment among the rocks and woods of his native district, when, at the request of Prince Charles, he made good his escape, and


[TD 235]

proceeded to France. He died at Dunkirk, and was buried in the garden of the Carmelites—interment in consecrated ground being refused in consequence of his unswerving adherence to the Protestant faith.

This death-song for Cluny of the ’45 was composed by Fear Strath Mhathaisidh, in whose home, when a fugitive, we may be sure that the wanderer spent many a comparatively happy hour. Lachlan Macpherson, tacksman of Strathmashie, was the tenth Ceann-taigh of that branch of the Pitmain family to which he belonged. His mother was a daughter of Mackintosh of Mackintosh, while his father’s mother was Catherine Macdonald, daughter to Gilleasp na Ceapaich. It may have been through this latter connection that he derived his poetic genius. Born about 1720, he took the field along with his father in 1745 as an officer, accompanying his chief to Derby. His wife was a daughter of Mr Archibald Butter of Faskally, who was factor on the Confiscated Estates in Badenoch and Lochaber. He died in the last decade of the eighteenth century, in the hereditary <gai>duchus<eng> of his race, where he had spent his whole life. His home, which still remains, is situated on a low-lying piece of ground close to the waters of the Mahashie. This stream he had once affectionately apostrophised thus:—

<gai>Mathaisidh gheal, bhòidheach gheal,
Mathaisidh gheal, bhòidheach gheal,
Bu chaomh leam bhi laimh riut.<eng>

But on seeing it sweeping away his stooks in a harvest spate, he addressed it upbraidingly:—

<gai>Mathaisidh dhubh, fhrògach dhubh,
Mathaisidh dubh, fhrògach dhubh.
Is mòr rinn thu chall orm.<eng>


[TD 236]

Clear, bonnie clear Mahashie,
Clear, bonnie clear Mahashie,
I’d love to be near thee.

Black, marshy black Mahashie,
Black, marshy black Mahashie,
Great loss hast thou done me.

That Lachlan Macpherson could compose with equal facility in Gaelic and English is proved by an amusing brochure which he published. In a sort of parody on the Homeric style, he tells of the devastation wrought by the Spey in carrying away stooks of corn from various holdings in its course, and of the mêlée which took place among the despoiled and excited husbandmen, each of whom clamoured for his own from the mass of common property which the river had accumulated at a certain place.

<gai>Gur lìonmhor trioblaid sìnte
Ris an linn a chi ’n droch shaoghal so,
Tha plàigh, claidheamh ’s mì-rùn ann,
Tha gaol na fìrinn aotrom ann,
Tha fear na foille dìreadh ann,
Tha ’n crìdh’-aonfhillt’ a’ tearnadh ann,
’S ma lasas Eas’ a rìreamh riu,
Gheibh daoine dìreach aomadh ann.

Ged dh’ éirinn le rìgh Seumas,
Agus dol air ghleus fo m’ armachd leis,
Mur saoil mi gur h-e ’n eucoir e,
An nì chòir gu ’n éight’ ’am chealgair mi?
Ma ni sinn mar is léir dhuinn
Cha bhi Rìgh na Gréin’ cho feargach ruinn,
Ach ’s e clann nan daoine a’s géir-bhreithich,
’S gur fad’ is éis air Albainn sin.


[TD 237]

O! ’s iomadh gaisgeach sàr-bhuilleach,
A lúghdaich blàr an cunntais oirnn,
Thug Tearlach as na fàsaichean,
Chain fuil an dàil nan Stiùbhardach;
’Nan cadal trom ’s na h-àraichean,
’S an cùl ri làr ’s cha dùisgear iad,
Bha croich ’us tuagh ’toirt bàis orra,
’S bha cuid dhiubh dh’ fhàg an dùthchannan.

Am fear a dh’ fhàg an dùthaich so,
Bu mhath air chùl na cruadhach e,
B’ e ’n Gàidheal sgaiteach, cliùiteach e,
’S bu dùthchasach air Cluainidh e:
’B’ e ’n crann ’chuir croiseal diùbhalach,
A dhruid a null thar chuaintean e;
Thug teisteas fir thar cheudan leis,
“A chaoidh nach meud a bhuadhaicheas.”

Gu ’m b’ fhearail, smiorail, anmant e,
Bu lasair ’fhearg ’n uair ’dhùisgeadh e,
Bu bheò ’n a fheòl ’s ’n a mheanmna e,
Bu bhealach far am brùchdadh e,
Mar thuinn ri carraig fhairgeach e,
Mar fhaoilleach ’s stoirm ’ga dùbhlachadh,
Mar thein’ air fraoch nan garbhlaichean,
’S mar easraich gharbh an ùr uisge.

Cha chuireadh faileas gruaimean air,
’S cha chuireadh fuathas càmpar air,
Cha bu raghainn tuasaid leis,
’S nam b’fheudar dha bu luath-làmhach:
Bha luim, ’us greim, ’us cruadal ann,
’S bu treun a’ bualadh nàmhaid e,
Mar ealtainn gheur fo’ n fheur uain e,
Gu’n gearrta sluagh ’san aimhreit leis.

[TD 238]

Cha bu bhrais gun réusan e,
’S cha mhò bu leumach, gòrach e,
Bhiodh làmh a’ casg na h-eucorach,
’S làmh eile treun ’sa’ chòmhraig aig.
Bha truas ’us iochd ri feumaich ann,
’S b’ i sìth ’us réit’ a b’ òrdugh dha,
’S cha ’n fhaca mis’ le m’ léirsinn-sa,
No neach fo ’n ghrein ri fòirneart e.

Cha bu duine gòrach e,
A chuireadh bòsd à thruacantas,
Mu ’nàdur gu dearbh b’ eolach mi,
Bha cuid de m’ sheòrsa dh’ éireadh leis:
Ma ’s buidheann ghasd’ ’an còmhraig sibh,
Bi’dh na Naoidh an còmhnaidh beusach dhùibh,
’S ma ’s bratach thais an co-strì sibh,
Cha chluinnear beòil a’ séis umaibh.

’Nuair thrialladh brais’ na feirge dheth,
Bu mhàlda tlà mar mhaighdein e,
Bu bhlàth mar aiteal gréin mhoich e,
Bu chiùin mar speur an anamoich e.
Mar ghlacair òigh fo ceud-bharra,
’S i ’tighinn gu réidh gu caoimhnealachd,
Bha sean ’us òg cho spéiseil dheth,
’S nach fac iad treun cho toillteannach.

’Nuair ’bha ’n saoghal bruailleanach,
’S gluasad air luchd nàthsaichean,
’Nuair ’bhiodh an cinn gun chluasagan,
Gun tàmh le buail’ ’us bàthaichean;
Thug Eòghann sgrìob ’thoirt fuasglaidh dhuinn, (1)
’S ghlais e suas a’ Ghàidhealtach,
S’ cha ’n iarrradh iad mar bhuachaillean,
’S an taobh-tuath ach na fàsaichean.<eng>


(1) Young Cluny had been Captain of a Watch, or <gai>Freiceadan,<eng> appointed to maintain order over a wide district of the Highlands, and, in particular, to restrain cattle-lifting which had become alarmingly common.


[TD 239]

<gai>Ach dh’ fhalbh e nis ’s dh’ fhàg e sinn,
’S co chaisgeas làmh na h-eucorach?
Ged fhaicte ’n còir ’ga sàrachadh,
Gu ’n chaill sinn làmh ar treunadais;
Mo bheannachd suas do Phàrras leis,
Bho ’n dh’ fìll am bàs ’na éideadh e,
’S a dh’ aindeoin rìgh ’us pàrlamaid,
Rinn Rìgh nan gràsan réite ris.<eng>


CXLII.

The circumstances attending Cluny’s death at Dunkirk, and his burial in the garden of the Carmelites close to the house where he died, are too well known to call for more than passing reference. But few, probably, are aware that so recently as thirty years ago, the Curé of the parish communicated with the family in the most friendly way, when, in consequence of certain building operations, all trace of the tomb was about to be obliterated. Nothing, however, could be done to avert this act of vandalism.

When the tidings of Cluny’s death arrived in Badenoch, it was a matter of keen regret that it was impossible to bring home the remains. Still less tolerable was the idea of exhumation, as we learn from this sole-surviving stanza of an elegy composed upon the departed chief, by a daughter of the clan.

<gai>Nam bu mhise do dhaoin’-uaisle
Ged bheirinn cluas a beartas,
Cha b’ e giseagan an t-sluaigh
Bhiodh eadar mi ’s an cuan a shracadh;
Ghabhainn an t-sìde mu mo chluasan,
Sgoiltinn an cuan air a tharsuinn,
’S chìthinn cnaimhean Eoghainn Ruaidh
’N carraigh Chluainidh an tasgaidh.<eng>


[TD 240]

CXLIII.

The Breakachy, or Crubinmore, Family was one of the oldest, and for long one of the most flourishing off-shoots of the House of Cluny. In addition to these lands which they held in tack from the Dukes of Gordon, they possessed the adjoining property of Catlodge—how, or when acquired by them, I do not know. Due it may be to the death of wealthy relatives who had gone abroad, the prosperity of the family continued to increase more and more until they were able to purchase the estates of Flichity and Gask in Strathnairn, and Bleaton at the foot of Glenshee in Perthshire.

Donald Macpherson of Breakachy, who was married to a sister of Cluny of the ’45, had a family of four sons and one daughter, Marjory, who became wife of the unfortunate Mackintosh of Borlum. The eldest son, Colonel Duncan, in whose time the Breakachy family attained the zenith of a prosperity from which it rapidly declined, married his full cousin, Margaret, daughter to Ewen Macpherson of Cluny, and was father to General Barclay Macpherson, who died at Stirling in 1858 in the eighty-fourth year of his age.

Evan, or Ewen, the fourth son of the afore-mentioned Donald, was killed by falling over a precipice above Catlodge, when out shooting. In the family burial place in the old Churchyard of Kingussie, there is a rough slab, darkened with damp and age, that gives this pathetic record in fading characters rudely inscribed;—

1769
HERE LYS
EVAN MCPHERSON,
SON TO DONALD MCPHERSON OF BREAKACHY,
WHO DIED MARCH THE 25TH,
AGED 21 YEARS.


[TD 241]

How eloquent is this simple epitaph that with its plain tale suggests the heart-stricken grief of a bereaved father and a home circle. We can imagine, too, the thrill of surprised sorrow which the sudden death of this promising youth must have occasioned over a wide district on both sides the Spey, among a people by whom violent death in any form was regarded with feelings of profound horror and awe.

In this funeral dirge, Malcolm MacIntyre—otherwise <gai>Calum Dubh nam Protaigean<eng>—pours forth a lamentation for young Ewen of Breakachy—<gai>Eoghainn Og Bhreacachaidh<eng>—which reminds one of Sir Walter Scott’s coronach for Duncan, in the “Lady of the Lake;”—

He is gone on the mountain.
He is lost to the forest,
Like a summer-dried fountain,
When our need was the sorest.
The fount reappearing,
From the raindrops shall borrow,
But to us comes no cheering.
To Duncan no morrow.

The hand of the reaper
Takes the ears that are hoary,
But the voice of the weeper
Wails manhood in glory.
The autumn winds rushing
Waft the leaves that are serest,
But our flower was in flushing
When blighting was nearest.

It only remains to add that Donald Macpherson quitted Breakachy, the ancestral <gai>duchus<eng> of his race, in 1773, when it was taken by Lachlan Macpherson, <gai>Fear an Ra-léith,<eng> by whom, or in whose family, it


[TD 242]

continued to be held on tack until, along with other lands now forming the estate of Glentruim, it was purchased by his son from the Gordon Trustees, after 1830.

With the death of General Barclay Macpherson, who was the last direct heir-male of the house, the old family of Breakachy, which had weathered the vicissitude of centuries, at length ceased to hold place in the clan. Probably its representative might be found in America.

<gai>’S trom a shaltair an t-aog oirnn,
Bhuail e corran na sàighte
Ann am broilleach na soillse,
Leòn e sgoilear na beurla.
’S e dh’ fhag bronach do dhaoine,
Bhi ’g ad ghiùlain air ghoidibh,
Ann an crùids’ air neart ghaoirdean,
D’ fhàgail dùinte fo ’n fhroighnidh,
’N seòmar ùr, ’s tu bhi ’n comhnaidh fo ’n fhòid.

Thainig tarraid neo-chaomh oirnn,
’S e mar ghaduich’ ’s an oidhche,
’S cha b’ e ’m bagar a rinn e,
Rinn e ’bheairt mu ’n robh ’n t-aobhar,
Lùb e ’n gallan a b’fhine
Dhàs dhe ’n darach bu daigne,
Bu sgiath chùil air thùs feadhna,
Bu neo-bhùit ann an caonnaig,
Fath mo ghearain, gun d’ fhaodainn
’S an tùr gheal air a’ choinneamh ’s am bi ’m pòit.

Mo mhor dhiùbhail, do charamh,
Dhùblaig deoir air do chairdean,
Dh’ fhàisg an duirn mu chùis d’ fhagail
Ann an crùids’ fo bhuird shabhaichte,


[TD 243]

Gun cheol cumha no tàileasg,
Gun sgal pìoba no clarsaich,
Gun cheòl fìdhl’ ach deoir shaillte
Aig a mhuinntir a dh’ fhag thu fo bhròn.

Cas a dhìreadh am bruthach,
Leat bu mhiann air do shiubhal,
Iubhaidh chaol a’ bheoil chumhaing,
’Chuireadh fùdar ’n a shiubhal,
A tholladh béin le mor-udhar,
’S coin air éill ’g an cur riutha,
Bheireadh té dhiubh le bruthach fo leòn.

’S binn an naighheachd ’s na beanntan,
Dha na greighibh ’n tìm samhraidh,
Dha na h-aighean ’n tìm tearnaidh,
Dh’ eòin sléibh is dh’ iasg aibhne,
Dha ’n damh dhonn théid ’s an damhair,
A choileach dubh nan sgiath bàine,
Gu ’n do chaochail air d’ àbhuist,
’S bho nach maireann ort slàn, Eoghuinn Oig.

Ach Thì thug Maois bho Righ Phàroah,
’Sgoilt an fhairge ’n a clàraibh,
Dhealraich solus ’s an fhàsaich,
Shuidhich talamh air fairge,
Rinn dhe neo-ni siol Adhamh,
Seall an taobh-sa le càirdeas,
’S trom a bhagair thu d’ lamh oirnn,
Bhuain thu ’chraobh ’s i ’n a planntan,
Mu ’n d’ fhàs duilleag na meanghlan;
Trian do d’ aoibheachd cha ’n eòl domh
Gu ìnnseadh-sgeoil thoirt do chàch air na dh’ fhalbh.

Tha do phàrantan brònach,
Tha do bhrathran fo dhòruinn,
Tha do phiuthair fo dheoir dhe,
Tha leann-dubh oirr’ an comhnuidh


[TD 244]

Mu ’n leòmhann ghasda gun mhor-chùis,
Dh’ fhoghluim gaisgeachd bho ’oìge.
Bu sgiath dhìon air a’ mhòd thu,
Bu chùl-taic dha na deòraidh,
Beairt is dìomham ri leòghadh,
Na chuir sìos ann an òran,
Ge do sgrìobhta air bord e;—
Cha ’n eil ’s an t-saoghal ach gòraich,
Is gach maoin dhe mar cheo dol air sìan.

’S goirt leam acain bhur diùbhail,
Chaill sibh seobhag tigh’ Chrubainn,
Ursainn chatha’ s gach baoghal,
Sgoilteadh gnothuch gach cùise,
’S e fath mo ghearain ri chùnntadh,
Gu ’n d’ odhraich anart is ùir ort
Ann an teampull (1) fo chùl-lic,
Far dach dùisg do luchd ciùil thu,
Thug an t-Ard-Righ ’n t-slat-iùil bhuainn,
Measg nan aingeal cho mùirneach ri Iob.

Mo mhòr-dhiùbhail do charamh,
Stiuir an cùp ud ri ’d airnean,
Shaighte dubailte làidir,—
D’ fhuil bhi brùite ’n ad bhraghad,
’S i bhi taomadh mar sgarlaid,
’S nach robh cùis ann gu tearnadh
Fo na dùil thu chum slàinnte.
Bho na dhùin iad ’s na clàir thu,
Eiridh trombaid gu h-arda,
Sgoiltidh uaighean is teampuill,
Eiridh mairbh asda ’n airde,
Mu ’n tig m’ ionndrainnse ’làthair
Dh’ inns’ dhuinn ciod e am barr tha teachd oirnn.<eng>


(1) The tomb was within the ruined walls of the Church of St. Columba.


[TD 245]

<gai>’S i ’chraobh chuilinn chruaidh chomhnaird,
Gun ghràinne mullaich, gun ròs oirr’,
Do bhian mar shneachda nan lòintean,
Do dheud mar chailc, na mar neòinean,
Aogais Bhénuis air bhòichead.
Nam b’ ann le creubhagaibh feòla,
Bhuint’ an t-eug ud a leòn thu,
Chluinnteadh sgeul air an Albainn,
Nochdta crann is bréid-sròl’ ris,
Mar ri cat is greann cholg air,
Rachadh treud leat an ordugh,
Da thaobh Spéithe gu Lòchaidh,
Mu ’m biodh t-éirig gun tòireachd,
Dh’ fhàgadh creuchdan a’ doirteadh,
Is iad mar dhréagonaibh òga dol sios.<eng>


CXLIV.

This characteristic <gai>coronach<eng> is attuned to the quickly changing notes of a wailing bagpipe lament. A monody for departed friends,—it is impossible to say whose was the grief that it expresses.

<gai>O chòin, a righ!
O chòin, a righ!
O chòin, a righ!
Thriall iad bhuam;
O chòin, a righ!
O chòin, a righ!
Mo dhaoin’ ’g am dhìth,
Fo ’n lic anns a’ chill
’N an suain.<eng>


[TD 246]

CXLV.

Here is a triplet that bears the magic touch of true lyric genius in its intensity of feeling. It is a sort of poetic sigh awakened by the death of a favourite priest.

<gai>O chòin, a shluaigh!
Tha ionndrain bhuainn,
Cha tig e ’n uair ar bàis.<eng>

This little dirge reminds me of an incident that has a place among my childish recollections.

A priest, who had been officiating for some time in Brae Badenoch, resolved to emigrate to Canada, where so many families from the district were already settled. Before taking his departure, he made the round of his widely scattered flock to bid them a long farewell.

Among others visited, was an old woman from Lochaber, called <gai>Mathair Dho’uill Fhriseil,<eng> who resided with her gamekeeper son in the wood, midway between Aberarder and Kinloch Laggan. On the priest leaving her house, the aged dame slowly accompanied him down the sloping track that led from the door, and then proceeded a few paces along the public highway. On the exact spot at the road-side, where the actual parting took place, the poor woman with her own hands raised a cairn of stones to commemorate the event.

This touching memorial—which at first would be from three to four feet in height—remained long after the circumstances that occasioned it were known to anyone in the neighbourhood. But on passing that way within recent years, I found that


[TD 247]

the cairn had been completely swept away, the stones which composed it being, apparently, broken up for road metal.


CXLVI.

Notwithstanding that this very fine ballad was in much favour among the milkmaids of Kingussie and Laggan, it has been extremely difficult to get anything like a complete version of it. That given below has been collected in snatches from the recitation of a dozen persons. The untoward event which it celebrates made a profound impression throughout the country. About seven score years ago, the cattle belonging to Captain John Macpherson, tacksman of Blaragie, being let loose on a sunny day in early spring, became frantic with delight at their novel and unexpectedly acquired freedom, and betook themselves to the hills, heedless of consequences. The herd—a young man named Macdonald—followed them as far as Drumochter. While he traversed that bleak and solitary tract which extends between Dalwhinnie and Dalnacardoch, the weather, proverbially fickle at that season, suddenly and terribly changed. A blinding snow-storm set in, and the unfortunate lad never more found his way home. Among those who set out in quest of the lost herd was his true-love. When the body was found in a well, the famished deer were stripping the willow branches overhead. What a wild wail of heart-grief resounds through these verses! The late Principal Shairp of St. Andrews greatly admired this ballad, and an English version from his pen will be found in “Glen


[TD 248]

Desseray and other Poems,” edited by Mr Francis T. Palgrave. But the text I supplied to the Principal was more fragmentary than that given here.

<gai>’S fhir nan sùl donna
Cha bu choma leam beó thu;

’S fhir nan sùl mìogach,
B’e mo mhiann bhi do chòdhail.

Tha mo chridhe cho briste
Ri itealaich eoinein;

’S tha mo chridhe chò ciurrta,
’S nach giulain e ’n cotan.

’S ioma sùil a bha ’sileadh,
Eadar Raineach ’s Druimuachdair.

Là Fheill Brìde ’san Earrach,
Chaidh na h-aighean air uaibhreas.

’S tha mi sgith le bhi siubhal
Leacann dubha Dhruimuachdair.

Ged a fhuaireadh na h-aighean,
Cha’n fhaighear am buachaill’.

’S ann bha ’n Domhnullach fìor-ghlan,
’Na shineadh ’san fhuaran;

’Na shìneadh air ’uilinn,
Gun aon duine mu ’n cuairt dha.

Bha a cheann am preas aitinn,
’S a chasan ’san luachair;

’S luchd nam biodagan croma
’Gearradh connaidh mu ’n cuairt dha.

Ach ’s truagh nach mise chaidh seachad,
Mu ’n do mheilich am fuachd thu;


[TD 249]

Le mo bhreacan dlùth tioram,
Dheanainn fhilleadh mu ’n cuairt duit;

’S cuach mhor uisge-bheatha,
Chuireadh rugha ’nad ghruaidhean;

Uisge-beatha nam feadan
Air a leigeadh tri uairean;

’S grainne beaga de ’n chanal,
Mu ’n deach d’ anail am fuairead;

Agus bothan math cluthaicht’,
An deis a thubhadh le luachair;

Teine mor air làr tighe,
’S e gun deathach, gun luath dhe.

Tha do chinneadh ’s do chairdean,
Ro chràiteach an uair so;

Gu ’n do chuir iad ’san àth thu,
Gu’s an d’ thainig Fear Chluainidh;

Gu’s an d’ thainig Clann Thamhais,
Nach sàradh an cruadal;

Gu’s an d’ thainig Clann ’ic ’ilip
An triuir bu shine ’sa b’ uails’ dhiubh;

Gu’s an d’ thainig Clann Mhuirich,
’S gach aon duine mar chual’ e.

’S ann bha ’n éigheach ’s an sgreadail,
Anns na creagan sin shuas uait;

Agus sliochd do dhà sheanair
A sior-thional mu ’n cuairt duit.

’N uair a thainig do bhràithrean,
Bha iad cràiteach, bochd, truagh dhe.

’N uair a thainig do phiuthair,
Bha leann-dubh air a gruaidhean.


[TD 250]

’N uair a thainig do mhathair,
Gu ’m b’ i an t-àsran truagh i;

Bha a ceann air dhroch cheangal,
’S a basan ’gam bualadh.

Is cha b’ fhas’ e dha d’ athair,
Bha e ’ casadh a ghruaige.

’N uair a thain’ do bhean-dìolain,
Bha i spìonadh a cuailein.

’S tha mi sgith ’s mi bhi siubhal,
Monadh dubha Dhruimuachdair.<eng>


CXLVII.

The circumstances under which this death-song was composed appear to have been very similar to those which occasioned CXXXV. and CXLIII. in this section. The subject of it, who came by a violent death, was young John Macpherson of Ballourie. He belonged to the Pitchern family, which, again, was sprung from the Pitmain branch of the clan. My old friend, <gai>Bean à Choire,<eng> was much moved, and shed tears, when, at the age of eighty nine years, she sang the lament for <gai>Iain Og Bhail’ Odhraidh.

Righ! gur mis’ a tha ciurrta,
’Bhi ’g amharc na cùise mar tha:
Tha do bhaile gun smùid deth,
’S tu ’n ad laidhe gun chùram a’ mhàil!
Tha do mhàthair fo dhùbhròn;
Agus d’ athair gun sùnnt air ri stàth!
O na chàireadh ’s an ùir thu,
’S beag an aire air sùgradh, ’s cha nàr.


[TD 251]

Ri sùgradh tuille cha bhi iad,
Thuit an cridhe ’s an ìnntinn gu làr.
’S beag an t-ìoghnadh leam-fhìn e,
’N déis an t-àilleagan prìseil a chall.
Chuir e ’ùidh ’an toil-inntinn
A thoirt doibh mu ’n do dhìrich e ’cheann.
Chaill iad stiùir ’us ceann-riaghailt;
Thuit iad dùbailt ’an deuchainn, ’s an càs.

’S ann mu ’n ùr-ghallan phrìseil,
’Bha ’fàs anns an t-silidh gun mheang.
Cha b’e crìonach na dìge,
Ach fiodh na pàirce ’bu rìomhaich’ a bh’ ann,
Am freumh a chinnich gu fìor-ghlan,
Shuas an Coir-an-t-sìth as a bàrr.
Och! a Mhoire, mo thruaighe,
’Bhean (1) a thaisg thu ’s an fhuar leaba-chlàr.

Chunna mise le m’ shùilean,
(A rìgh! bu chùirrta leam è!)
D’ fhuil chraobhach a’ brùchdadh,
Mar gu ’n taomadh am bùrn as an àlld.
Ged ’bu phailt do luchd-dùrachd,
Cha robh casg air a chùis ud ach mall.
Rinn i ’bhlàth—mo mhòr dhiùbhail—
Thug i ’bhas mu ’n do dhùraig i tàmh!

’S bochd an obair a rinn i—
Sguab i ’choinneal de ’n choinnleir gun chnàmh!
Thug i dorcha na h-òidhch’ oirnn,
’N uair a shaoil sinn an t-soillse ’bhi ann,
Dh’ fhàg i ’m fearrann gun oighre,
Thug i dhachaidh thu, ’dheadh chinn an àidh.
’Fhir ’bu mhiadhaile foighneachd,
’N uair bu mhairionn Eoin soillseanach bàn.<eng>


(1) His mother.


[TD 252]

<gai>Tha do chinneadh mu ’n ’cuairt duit,
(Eadar ìslean ’us uaislean) fo phràmh.
Tha do leac iar a sguabadh,
’Dhìth nach seas thusa suas air a ceann.
Chaill sinn smear an duin-uasail,
Agus aodann a’ chruadail ’s a’ bhlàr.
’S mòr i ionndraichinn Chluainidh,
’N àm togail an t-sluaigh mu na chrann.

Thigeadh breacan an fhéilidh,
Air d’ iosgaid ghlé ghil gu h-àrd;
Osain ghoirid’ do réir sin,
Air a’ chalp a bu chéutaiche làn;
Gunna-glaic air dheadh ghléusadh,
’S gu ’m bu tapaidh thu fhéin air a h-eàrr.
Lamh a shracadh nam béin thu,
’S a leagail an fhéidh anns a chàrn.

Bha thu dh’ fhìor-fhuil nan uaislean,
Cha b’ i ’n t-silidh bha ’m bruachan nan àllt.
Bha thu foinnidh, deas, dìreach,
Cuimte, cumadail, sìnnt’ air do chnàimh;
Modhail, macanta, fìor-ghlic,
O d’ theangaidh bu lìomharra cainnt;
Cha robh cron ort ri ’innse,
Eadar mullach do chinn, ’s do dhà shàil.

Dh’ fhios do bhaile cha téid mi—
Gur a duilich leam fhein a dhol ann.
Thu ’bhi ’d laidhe gun éirigh,
’Bheòil a dh’ fhuran na féisd air luchd-dàimh.
’Deadh mhic athar na féile,
Nach dean tuille car éibhinn ach mall;
’N diugh e ’dh’ uireasuidh céille,
Fàth a dhunaich nach éirich thu slàn.


[TD 253]

Chaidh mis’ iomrall ’n am léirsinn,
Tha dìth caoine iar éirigh ’n am cheann.
Faodaidh aineolaich m’ éisdeachd,
Agus fharraid diom réusan mo chàis.
Cho luath ’s a sgar uainn an t-éug thu—
Mu ’n do tharruinn thu céile air làimh.
’Chuir an aithghearr mo sgeula—
Air Bail-Obhraidh dh’ éight’ Iain bàn.<eng>


CXLVIII.

This elegy on the death of William Mackintosh of Balnespick was composed by Malcolm MacIntyre, i.e., <gai>Calum Dubh nam Protaigean.<eng> Although styled “of Balnespick,” from their long occupancy of the ancient Church Lands on Loch Insh, the family latterly resided at Kincraig. Even when they took up their abode upon the estate which they had acquired in Strathdearn, and entirely severed their connection with Badenoch, they carried with them, and still retain, the name of their ancestral <gai>dùchus<eng>.

William Mackintosh of Balnespick was nephew—sister’s son—to Sir Aeneas Mackintosh of Mackintosh. He held in tack from his relative and chief, the whole Barony of Dunachton, and occupied a position of great weight and influence throughout the country. Shrewd, prosperous, and withal of kindly disposition, he was held in high esteem.

<gai>’S coimeas mise do dh-Oisean
’Bhiodh ag ìnnse mar ’thachair do ’n Fhéinn;
’Bhiodh a’ bruidhinn mu Oscar—
’Bhiodh ag osnaich mu ghnìomh nam fear tréun.


[TD 254]

Gur h-e ’mheudaich mo dhosguinn—
’Luaths ’s a chaidh Uilleam mac Lachluinn gu h-éug.
Laoch òg ’bu mhòr urram—
Gallan-mullaich nan Tòiseach gu léir. (1)

’S beag an t-ìoghn’ thu ’bhi spòrsail,
’S a liuthad freumh mhòr as ’na chinnich do chréubh,
Fuil Righ Fionnaghail, le còmhdach,
’Na lìnigeadh beò dha do chré.

An uair a thogtadh leat bratach,
Gu ’n èireadh Clann-Chatain fo d’ sgéith.
Dhuit bu dùchas ’bhi agad,
Taobh thall Lòchaidh, ’s Loch Lagain (2) fo chìs.

Co leis ’bu dàna ort bagairt?—
Thig ort Granndaich, fir ladurna, bhorb.
Thig suinn òg à Srath-Ghlais ort-
Thig na Seathaich ’n àm cnagadh nan òrd.

Mar sid ’us Clann-Fhiùnnlaith, (3)
’Thig a nall à Bràigh-mhàrr ’g am bi ’n ceòl;<eng>


(1) There had been some prospect that Balnespick would succeed to the estates of his uncle, Sir Aeneas. He died in 1817 at a comparatively early age, leaving two sons, one of whom survived until 1903.

(2) Lands which belonged to The Mackintosh before they became the property of Lochiel and Cluny respectively.

(3) The Clan Finlay, or Farquharsons, of Braemar, were in great favour in Badenoch. It is matter of regret that the leading families of this fine race should have run out in the male line. John Macpherson of Nuide had married a Miss Farquharson of Monaltrie, and this connection no doubt went to strengthen the ancient ties between the two clans. As recently as thirty years ago, I took down in Little Nuide the lament for Donald Farquharson, the young baron of Monaltrie, beginning:—

<gai>Co bheir burn dha ’n each mhór,
Na co ni mharcachd?<eng>

Who’ll lead to water the charger,
Or who will ride him?


[TD 255]

<gai>Mar-ri cinneadh mor d’ athar,
’Thig mar sheobhaig gu cath as na neòil.

Thig ort Tighearna-Chluainidh,
’Bhratach-Uaine ’s na gaisgich ach tìll,
’An àm tional do chàirdean,
’S lìonmhor sròl agus crann os do chìnn.

’An àm socruchadh cùise,
’N uair a shuidheadh, ’s a’ chùirt, an luchd-breith,
A thoirt téinnteis, no bìnne,
Air do bhilean thigeadh ’n fhìrinn a mach.

Breith mhi-cheart cha bu bhéus duit,
Cha do ghlac riamh, an éucoir, do bheachd,—
’S tric a thug thu à prìosan,
Duine truagh ’us a bhìnn gu neo-cheart.

Tha do pheathraichean truagh dheth—
Neul an gruaidh’ mar dhuilleag na dris’:
Eadar odhar ’us uaine—
Mar an cluaran a thilgteadh à lios.

Mar sgaoth sheillean ’am bruachaig
’Caoidh na meal’ thugadh uap’ as an sgip—
Iad a cumha mu ’m bràthair,
’N déigh a thasgadh, ’s a chàradh fo ’n lic!

Tha do bhean iar a cuaradh
O ’n la ’chual’ i an sgeul so ’s gur fìor;
Spìon ’us tharraing i ’cuailean—
Thug i nuas e bhàrr mullach a cìnn.

Tha neul an Aoig air do gheata,
’S Tùr uain’ nan clach snaighte gun smùid!
O ’n là ’chaochail do phearsa;
Bhris na téudan—chaidh stad ’s an luchd-chiùil!


[TD 256]

Chluinnt’ a phìob ann, ’s a’ chlàrsach—
Cuilm ’ga caitheamh—b’ e d’ àbhaist ’s do mhiann,
’Cur mu ’n cuairt do dheoch-slàinte,
Gun aon dibh ann ’bu tàire na ’m fìon.

Cas a dhìreadh a’ mhunaidh—
Leat bu mhiannach bhi ’siubhal nam meall,
Le d’ iuthaidh laghaich nach diùltadh,
An déigh a taghadh, ’s a h-ùilleadh o ’n cheard.

’N uair a loisgeadh i ’m fùdar,
(’S a chaogadh tu ’n t-sùil ris an àrc)
Gu ’m biodh aoltair an fhuarain,
Iar a leagadh ’s na bruachan fo àr.

Cha robh bàrr aig mac duin ort
(’S fiosrach mòran mar bhuidhinn thu ’n geall)
’Thoirt an eòin as na spèuran,
Fhuair thu ’n t-urram gu léir ’am measg Ghall.

Bu tu marbhaich a’ bhradain
’S an eòin-bhàin ’bhios air bearradh nan càrn.
Cùl-taice thruaghan, ’s dhìol-dèirce,
Suilbhear, duineil gun phléid, ri d’ luchd-dàimh.

Ach o nach beò thu ri d’ fhaighinn,
Guidheam cuibhleachan-rath air do chloinn—
Do mhac ’bhi ’n Ceann Loch na Maighe,
O’n ’s tu mac piuthar nan Tòiseach a th’ ann.<eng>


CXLIX.

This elegy is said to be a lament for the death of a member of the Balnespick family who was drowned at sea. The old woman from whom I took it down informed me that it was composed by Duncan Mackay, who was commonly spoken of as <gai>Donnachadh Gobha.


[TD 257]

(1) ’S mòr puthar na gaoithe,
Fad an t-saoghail gu léir,
’Ghaoth thàinig Di-h-aoine,
’S i chaochail mo sgeul;
Dh’ fhàg i aobhar nan ochan,
Aig luchd nam portaibh gu léir,
Air fad Eurann is Bhreatunn
Bha ’n éigh-creach ann ’ga sheinn.

Ach aon duin’ tha mi ’gearain,
Dhe na chaillear ’s a chuan,
Cha bhiodh mo chlann-sa gun charaid,
Nam bu mhairinn e buan.
Ach a’ Righ Mhòir nan aingeal!
Glac an anam-sa suas;
Na leig orm do ainiochd,
Bi gu tròcaireach, tairis ri d’ shluagh.

Ubh! ubh! a dhaoine!
Nach aobhar smuaineach’ is bròin;
An tì a dh’ fhalbh bhuainn Di-h-aoine,
Sùghail, aotrom gu leòir;
A’ bhi ’n innis nam faochag,
’S nach faodar dhe ’chòir;
’S ioma ni tha ’cur aois oirnn,
’S ioma caochladh ’tighinn oirnn.

Tha do bhráithrean ’s do phiuthar,
Tròm, dubhach, fo bhròn,
’S iad a chaoidh ’ga do chumhadh,<eng>


(1) On consulting Mr A. M. Mackintosh’s “History of Clan Chattan, I find that this elegy must have been composed upon Lachlan Mackintosh of Borlum, who was drowned at sea in June, 1723. There is no record of any member of the Balnespick family as having lost his life in this way. The two families are often mixed up in tradition. These verses, which were rather dubiously attributed to Duncan Mackay, were apparently composed long before his time.


[TD 258]

<gai>’S cha bhi iad subhach ri ’m beò.
Tha do chinneadh mòr, làidir,
Tròm cràiteach gach lò,
Bho ’n a chual’ iad gu ’n d’ bhàit’ thu,
An cuan bàrcach nan seòl.

Ach ’s truagh nach mise bha làimh riut,
Mu ’n do sgàin i fo bhòrd;
’S nan robh tìr faisg air làimh oirnn,
Dheanainn d’ shàbhaladh beò.
Tha do chinneadh gu h-iomlan,
Fo imcheist, làn bròin,
Mu do bhi anns an luma-dheirg,
Measg uile-bhiast is ròn.

Dh’ fhalbh Iob le chuid mhacaibh,
Le ’uile bheartas is nì,
’S rinn e aodach a shracadh,
Is spìon e ’m falt bhàrr a chinn;
Laidh e sìos air an oidhch’,
’S thubhairt e, “’S coisrigt’ an Tì,
A thug dhomh gach ni taitneach,
’S ghabh air ais bhuam e rìs.”

Thug e treis ann am bochdainn,
’Na chulaidh-fhochaid ’s an tìr,
Gun neach ’threòraicheadh ’fhocal,
Na bheireadh deoch dha ’s e tinn;
Ach as sin fhuair e urram,
Bho gach duine dhiubh rìs,
’S chinn e ’n stòras gun chumadh,
’S fhuair e oighribh, urram, is miadh.<eng>


CL.

A poor crofter, in this monody, gives an affecting glimpse of a home bereaved of her who was wife and mother.


[TD 259]

<gai>Nàile! ’s mise tha gun aighear,
Fo mhì-ghean a dh’ òidhch’ ’s a latha,
Gun toil-inntinn ’tha fo’n adhar,
Bho chuir iad ’s an ùir mo dheadh bhean-taighe.

E! ho! mo dhiùbhail fo’n fhòd,
Fo ruighe nam bòrd,
Ho! gur mis’ tha gun aighear fo leòn,
Mu do dhéidhinn.

Nàile! ’s mise tha fo mhì-ghean,
Gar ’n dian mi ’chàch ’innseadh,
Mi bhi ’cuimhnach’ ort, a mhìneag!
’S thu bhi do laidhe ’n Clachan na sgìreachd.

Nàile! ’s mise tha gun aiteas,
’S mi bhi ’thàmh an so an Clachaig,
Bho nach tigeadh thusa dhachaidh,
A shealltuinn air do phàisdean laga.

Bha da ghruaidh dhearg ort mar an siris,
Beul is binne bho’n tigeadh iorram,
Cùl do chinn air dhreach an fhithich,
Is gun d’ thug mi duit rùn mo chridhe.

Phòs mi thu le deòin gun aindeoin,
Gun toil ath’r, no math’r, no caraid,
Rug thu dhomhs’ do sheachdnar macan,
’S do nighean òg ’s cha d’ fhaod thu ’h-altrum.<eng>


CLI.

Lachlan Macpherson of Strathmashie died in the last decade of the eighteenth century. Well born—he was a nephew of Mackintosh of Mackintosh—and in good circumstances; and being at once scholar, musician, bard—and, above all, epigram-


[TD 260]

matist and wit—it may readily be imagined that this tacksman was a person of no small consequence in his own country. These verses form a mere fragment of an elegy composed on the occasion of his death.

<gai>Feasgar là air Di-dòmhnuich,
Fhuaras naidheachd ’chuir bròn oirnn,
Thu ’bhi d’ luighe gun chòmhradh,
’Fhuirbidh fhlathail gun mhòrchuis,
Dh’an robh tathaich luchd-eolais,
Ursann chath’ thu ’n tim dòruinn (1)
’S tròm an ionndrain do d’ sheòrs’ thu dhe ’n dìth.

Ann an drip, no ’n tìm fòirneirt,
Co dha measar do chòta,
’N cliù, ’s ’am misneachd, ’s ’an seòltachd,
Fhuair thu gibht o aois d’ òige,
Ciall, a’s gliocas, a’s eòlas,
D’ inntinn fiosrach ’s gach foghlum,
D’ fìrinn-s’ sheasadh mar chòir o làimh ’n rìgh.

Ann an coinneamh no ’n còmhdhail,
Co ni soilleir ’s a’ chòir sinn,
Chaill sinn coinneal ga leòghadh,
Tha sian doill’ oirnn air dòrtadh;
Tùs an fhoghair-s’ a leòn sinn,
Ghearr e ’choille ’n a h-òigead,
Crann de ’n darach, bàrr-meòir as a’ chraoibh.<eng>


CLII.

James Macpherson of Ossianic fame was born in the vicinity of Invertromie, October 27, 1736, and died at Belleville, February 17, 1796. He was


(1) He had espoused the cause of Prince Charles, and served as an officer in Cluny’s Regiment.


[TD 261]

connected with the Family of Nuide, whose representative had succeeded to Cluny in 1722. One of his sisters married John Macintyre, Knappach, and became the mother of Lieut.-Gen. John Macintyre of the H.E.I.C., to whose memory a mural tablet was erected in the parish church of Kingussie. Another sister married John Clark, whose descendants and family connections are particularised on pages 137-138 and elsewhere. He is often confused in tradition with Mr Alexander Clark, writer, Ruthven, who was married to a member of the Banchor family. Except as fellow-clansmen, there was no relationship between the two.

The marvellous career of James Macpherson is too well known to call for any lengthened notice here. After being, for a brief period, parish schoolmaster of Kingussie he became private tutor to the future Lord Lynedoch, and secured introductions which led him to fame and fortune. Through every change of circumstances, he manifested a constant and strong attachment for his native country, for his kindred, and for his chief and clan. At Knappach, among kindred and friends, he built, on a site commanding a magnificent prospect, a comfortable home for his mother. Albeit the good lady was not altogether satisfied with her son for having expended so much money in erecting a house on land not his own.

During the height of his fame, James Macpherson was always closely in touch with the humble friends of his youth on both sides the Spey; and never lost an opportunity of advancing their interests. Among his old neighbours he was to the end alluded to invariably as <gai>Seumas Bàn,<eng> i.e., Fair-haired James.


[TD 262]

It may be proper to mention that during his last illness, at Belleville, he delighted in the society of the “Men,” whom he sent for and invited to engage in religious conversation and prayer. It was by one of these, Duncan Mackay—<gai>Dunnachadh Gobha<eng>—that the following elegy upon James Macpherson was composed.

These stanzas are deeply interesting as giving the impressions of a good old man who—as he tells us himself—had been acquainted with the lamented person from his baptism to the last day of his life. Duncan Mackay was an elder in the Kirk-Session of Kingussie. He resided at <gai>Ardbroileach,<eng> where he died at an advanced age, some four score years ago.

<gai>Cia sibh a luchd aobhair?
Nach caoin sibh ’ur bochdainn,
Cha do dhealaich an t-aog ruibh,
Gun fhiach a shaoithreach a’ chosgairt;
’S mòr dosgainn na dùthcha,
Dh’ easbhuidh cliù agus fortain,
’S mor is misde mi fhéin e,
Tha mi leughadh dheth rosad.

Shalaich an sannt ud ur cridhe,
Cha dean cùibheas na ’s leoir duibh,
O nach tigeadh Elias,
G’ ur nigheadh ’an Iòrdan.
Bheir sinn àite dh’ Iehàbha,
Gus an nàraich e beò sibh;
Leanaidh an lùireach ur fàrdach,
Mur grad thionndaidh sibh dòchas.

’S aobhar mulaid d’ a thuath e,—
Bhi mu ’n cuairt da na laidhe;
Ach, cha ’n aithnich iad mùthadh,
Gus an tùirling an t-ath-fhear;


[TD 263]

Math dh’ fhaoidte nach diù leis,
Aon sùil thoirt ’g an amharc,
Ach an òrduch’ air faondradh,
’S fear na daorsainn a ghabhail. (1)

’S aobhar mulaid do d’ uaislean,
Bhi mu ’n cuairt do d’ chorp flathail,
Ged a ghabhadh tu gruaim,
A nithe suarach gun chathadh,
’Nuair a lasadh an cùram,
Fad a null thar an amhuinn,
Bu mhath ann air an cùl thu,
Chuir an cùisean gu tabhuill.

Bu tusa athair nan àsran,
A dh’ àrach na ’n dìleachd,
’S a thogadh an àird iad,
Do chàirdean nam b’ fhiach iad,
’S a ghléidheadh dhoibh an rathad,
Gu fraigheadh na Crìosdachd,
’S a ghléidheadh am franc dhoibh,
Cho fada ri ’n sgrìobhadh.

Chuir e òr anns an talamh,
Nach caraich fear feumach,
’S nach urrainn fear rapach,
A sgapadh o chéile;
Tha e sgrìobht’ aig Mac-Mhuirich,
Ga chumail ri chéile,
Thun an t-sìolaig a b’ ìsle,
Bha e dìleas d’ a Iarla.<eng>


(1) <gai>“Mo thruaigh sibh dar thig an Sasunnach,”<eng>—i.e., “My pity for you, when the Sassenach will come,”—James Macpherson used to say to the poor folks on his estate—to whom he was exceedingly kind—with reference to the succession of his son and heir. Alas! what he feared took place, when, within a few years, one hundred and fifty families were driven from their homes.


[TD 264]

<gai>’S math dh’ aithnich e ’n saoghal,
Gu ’m bu mhaorach neo-ghlan e,
Mar cheò anns a’ ghaoith e,
A chaochlai ’s mar fhaileas;
Bha tuigs’ ann a réusan,
Ri diol-déirc agus aithridh,
B’ e ’chùibhrinn a b’ fheàrr dheth,
Nach b’ urra ’m bàs ’thoirt o anam.

Chuir e ’chridhe ’sa chomas,
’An co-chomunn ri chéile,
Sgrios e ìomhaigh na h-airce,
Sìos o rampair a phéilis;
Rinn e cuilm ann a lùicheirt,
Thug e trusadh gu léir dhoibh,
Bha e mar shéula ’n àm sìothchai’,
Bhi ri ìobairt na réite.

A Rìgh! gur bochd a tha ’mhuinntir,
’Nuair a dh’ ionnsaich e riamh dhoibh,
’Bhi ’cluich air an ùrlair,
’Bha sgùirte le siabunn,—
’N diugh ’coimhead a pheilis,
Mar sheann duine liath i,
’S nach faic iad ri ’n saoghal,
Fear aogais ’ga riaghladh.

B’ e ùrla na mais’ e, (1)
Ri ’fhaicinn ’na éideadh,
B’ e rionnag a ghliocais,
Anns gach cuideachd an éight’ e;<eng>


(1) James Macpherson had inherited in no small degree the hereditary good looks of the Macphersons of Nuide.


[TD 265]

<gai>B’ e cìobair a chinne, (1)
’S e làn giorraig mu ’n déighinn,
’S ’an tìm shuidhe na Pàrlamaid,
’S mòr an call doibh gu ’n d’éug e.

’Nuair ’bhiodh e air faiche,
Ann an coidse na ’n séusa,
B’ e òrdugh na botail,
A chosd agus éigheach;
Ach ’s e n togail mu dheireadh,
A fradharc ’s na céisean,(2)
’Bhios mar chùimhne do ’n t-seann-chloinn,
Gu bhi ’ga sheanchas ri chéile.

Ged a gheibhinn e sgrìobhta,
Na miorbhuilean rinn e,
’S na chosd e dheth nì,
’Cur malailì air an òighreachd
Do na h-àilleagain phrìseil,
Nach robh dìomhain gun fhoinn doibh,
’S dubh a’ bhoile dhomh ’innseadh,
’S nì dìomhain duibh ’fhaighneachd.

Bha mise ’ga bheachdach,
Nam b’ aithne dhomh ìnnseadh,
O latha a bhaistidh,
Gu latha a chrìche;<eng>


(1) James Macpherson was exceedingly clannish. It was greatly due to his exertions that the Cluny Estates were restored to the son of Cluny of the Forty-Five.

(2) In accordance with his own directions, the corpse was enclosed within three coffins,—one being of Glen Feshie fir, the next of lead, and the outermost of mahogany. This token of the importance to which Seumas Ban attained made a great impression in the country, and used to be often alluded to in my own recollection.


[TD 266]

<gai>Ann an Albuinn na ’n Sasunn,
Mur saltair mi ’n fhìrinn,
Cha b’ aithne dhomh leithid,
Ga chaitheadh ’s ’ga dhianadh.

’Nuair ’mhiannaich sinn airgiod,
Thàinig meall oirnn gun fhios duinn,
Làmh an t-sonais ’ga sgaoileadh,
Nach do chaoin ann n’ ar measg e;
Ach tha mòran dhiùbh ’g radh,
’S beag is feàirrde na ’s misde,—
Sud mar mholar an t-àrmunn,
Chuireadh plàst r’ ar bristeadh.

Ged shirinn-se deònach,
Leis an eòlais a rinn mi,
Eadar caolas Kinghorn, (1)
Agus crò Inbhir-aora;
Eadar geat Inbhir-Lòchaidh,
Agus Deò (2) uisge Spéith so,
Cha ’n fhaighinn a leithid,
Dh’ fhear-tigh’ ann am féileachd.

B’ e ’thiomadh ri mnaithibh,
Na bh’ air a dh’ athais no dh’ éucoir,
No na b’ urrainn sìol Adhaimh,
A chàradh ri chréubhaig;
Ach rinn tròcair sin dha-san,
Nach d’ fhailling ’s nach stéinneadh,
’S mar thruailleachd an fhàsaich,
Gu ’n d’ fhàg e ’na dhéigh e.<eng>


(1) It is probable that bands of reapers were in the habit of crossing the Firth of Forth at Kinghorn, when travelling between the Highlands and East Lothian.

(2) The mouth of the river, i.e., Speymouth.


[TD 267]

<gai>S lìonmhor baintighearna ghasda,
Mar shneachda na h-aon oidhch’,
Bhios ag ionndrain a thlachda,
’Aiteas ’s a chainnte;
Bhios a deòiribh a frasadh,
’S iad a’ tachairt air ’adhlaic,
Ach ’s e aobhar an rachdaidh,
Nach glac iad air làimh e.

Gur a h-éiginn dhomh stad dheth,
Tha laigs’ ann mo chùimhne,
Cha léir dhomh na ’s faide,
Mu fhasan an oighre;
Ach ma thig e g’ a dhùthaich,
Le a chùirt ann an caoimhneas,
Bheir mise car fhathasd,
Air ratha na cùibhle.

Aon mhìle, seachd ceud,
Sèa-deug ’us ceith’r fichead,
Air feasgar Dì-ciadain
De ’n ath mhìos thànaig bristeadh;
Fhuair e ’n suman à Ràta,
O’n bhàs le comisein,
’Dhol a Lunnainn do’n àraich,
Gu là bhràth as nach tig e.

Bu mhòr a mheas ’us àrd urram,
Air clach-mhullaich a’ chabhsair’,
Le sholusa’ céire,
Ann an coinnleirean airgid;
Ann an Abailt nan Rìghrean, (1)
’Na sheasamh dìleas ’n an rancan,
’S gu latha na crìche,
Gheibh sibh sgrìobhta fear ainm ann.<eng>


(1) Westminster Abbey.


[TD 268]

<gai>Ma tha coigreach ’s an làthair so,
A dh fhairdeas m’a dhéighinn
Na stuic as an d’ fhàs e
’Nuair a thàr e cho spèiseil;
Mac-Mhuirich a b’ àille,
Chuir fo ’shàiltean na ceudan,
B’ ann gu ’n sonas a bha e,
Na ’m bu dàil gu bhi liath dha.

Bha beannachd a mhàthar,
A slànuch’ a chreuchdan,
Agus beannachd luchd-ceairde, (1)
Bha iad cràiteach mu dhéighinn;
Beannachd bhochd agus tuatha,
Aig an uan so ’chaidh chéusadh,
’S tha lighich ’am Pàrras,
’S thug e slàinte do Shéumus.<eng>


CLIII.

William Gow—<gai>Uilleam Ruigh ’n Uidhe<eng>—must have been an agreeable and useful hunting companion among the Cairngorms. As such, he was on terms of intimacy with members of the Rothiemurchus family, who stood by him on many a ticklish occasion. It is not a little remarkable, that one who led the rough life of a professional poacher, should be possessed of such a tender vein of elegiac feeling as is evinced in this piece, and in that which immediately follows. No less was he possessed with keen sensibilities to the varied effects of nature.

Colonel William Grant, referred to here, was the eldest son by his second wife, of the Laird of Rothie-


(1) Artisans and workmen of every description, throughout the district, had good reason to deplore the loss of James Macpherson.


[TD 269]

murchus, who went by the sobriquet of MacAlpine, in consequence of being reared by foster parents who belonged to the Clan Gregor. Captain William so lovingly associated in this death-song with the Colonel, and alluded to as his heir, was probably a brother’s son.

Most touching and of rare beauty are the allusions our bard makes to these patrons, as he deplores their death, and bewails his own friendless and unprotected situation in consequence.

<gai>A Righ! gur muladach mi
Anns a’ mhunadh leam fhìn,
Thàinig uisge orm, dìl’, is ceò.

’S mi ’bhi ’m bun Càrn a’ Mhàim,
Far nach b’ àbhaist ’bhi gann,
Fir chabrach nan eang ’s nan cròc;
’S mi ’bhi ’m bun Carn a’ Mhàim, etc.

Na fir eanganta luath.
Air nach beireadh fear truagh
’N uair a dhìreadh iad suas an t-sròin.

Leam bu mhiann ’bhi ’nan déigh,
Seal mu ’n éireadh a’ ghréin,
Le Nic-Ailpein bho ’n geura pòg.

’Nuair a chumainn i riù,
’S i nach mealladh mo shùil,
’N uair a lasadh am fùdar gorm.

Gur e Coirneal an àigh,
Thùg i mach as an stall,
Ged a tha e ’n diugh marbh fo ’n fhòid,— (1) <eng>


(1) It is evident that Colonel William had inherited the cognomen of “MacAlpine” from his father.


[TD 270]

<gai>Coirneal Uilleam an àigh,
Cas a dhìreadh nan càrn,
Dha ’m bu dùthchas ’bhi ann ’s bu chòir.

’N uair a rachadh thu ’n bheinn,
’S do ghillean ’ad dhéigh,
Bhiodh mac cabraich an fhéidh fo leòn.

’S ’n uair a bhiodh tu air sliabh,
’S tu ’gleidheadh nan eun,
’S tu gu’n leagadh dheth sgiath chum feòir.

’S i do chas a bha luath,
’S do làmh a bha cruaidh
’N uair a thàrladh thu ’n ruaig na ’n tòir.

Bu tu ’n t-iasgair air Spé
Le do mhorgha caol géur,
’S bhiodh do ghillean a’ gléusadh leòis.

’S tha d’ oighre ’san ùir,
Ann an crùidse an Dùin,
Caiptean Uilleam mo rùin ’s cha bheò.

’S ann a chaill mi mo chùl,
Bho ’n là chaidh thu ’san ùir,
’N uair ’théid m’ éigheachd gu cùirt no mòd.

Tha do mhàthair gheal féin,
Trom duilich ’nad dhéigh,
’S tha d’ athair gun fhéum fo bhròn.<eng>


CLIV.

This elegy, although cast in different measures, is in very similar key with the above. Gow is weighed down with melancholy as he recalls in solitude the friends of other years, who have passed


[TD 271]

away. About this time it was, that he joined the army; and he himself was soon about to take his last view of Glenmore.

There is little doubt but that both William and Lewis, who are lamented in this strain of sorrow, were scions of the Rothiemurchus family, which was very numerously represented towards the close of the eighteenth century.

<gai>An diugh ’s mòr mo chùis iarguinn,
’S mi bhi ’cuimhneach nur fialachd,
Thug nur mulad da thrian de ’m threoir dhiom.

Do ’n mhunadh cha téid mi,
Bho nach fhaic mi sibh fhéin ann,
Cha dian e ach deuchainn is bròn domh.

Cha téid mi ’Choire Ruairidh,
Bho nach tig iad ’gam ghluasad—
Na fir chùrant’ bhiodh a’ ruaig nan damh cròcach.

Bho nach faic mi a’ tighinn
Luchd a thogail mo chridhe,
Dheanadh làmhach air sithionn nan mòr-bheann.

’S beag an ioghnadh mi liathadh,
Gu ’m beil mulad ro chianail,
Bho cheann dà fhichead bliadhn’ agus còrr orm.

Bho ’n chaidh Uilleam a null bhuainn,
Air chuan nan tonn dùbh-ghorm,
Dh’ fhàg sud acain ’g am chiùrradh an còmhnaidh.

Bho nach d’ thàinig thu dhachaidh,
Thabhairt sgeul mar a b’ ait leinn,
’S a thabhairt ruaig air fir chabraich nam mòr-bheann.

’S an àm dhut dìreadh nan stùchdan,
’S gunna gléusd’ air do ghiùlan,
Gu’m biodh pùdhar air ùdlaich’ nan cròice.


[TD 272]

Bhiodh do luaidh air an giùlan,
Le Nic-Ailpein ’g a stiùradh,
’S fuil an cridhe na spùt air a’ mhòinteach.

’S ’n uair a chruinn’ cheadh Sir Séumas,
A chuid ghaisgeach ri chéile,
Fhuair thu ’n t-urram air thréunad ’s air bhòi’chead.

Sùil ghorm mar an dearcag,
Gruaidh dhearg mar an corcur,
Béul a’s binne ’s a’s blasd’ bho ’n tig òran.

’S mòr mo mhulad a’s m’ éislean
Bho ’n a dhealaich thu féin rium,
’S bho ’n a thaisg iad ’an céise nam bòrd thu.

’S tha mo mhulad ’fàs dùbailt’,
Bho ’n chaidh Luthais a dhùnadh,
Ann an ciste fo ’n ùir, ’s e gun deò ann,—

’Na shìneadh ’s a’ chlachan,
Far nach dean mi ’chaoidh ’fhaicinn;
Dh’ fhàg sud éisleanach m’ aigne ’s cha neònach,—

’S a liuthad oidhch’ agus maduinn,
Sinn gun sgìos no gun airsneal,
Ann am frith nan damh bras bha sinn còmhla,

Am Beann na Bruaich ’s Coire Buairidh,
Agus Dubh-ghleannan gruamach,
Far am faighteadh fear ruadh a’ chinn chròcaich.

’S an àm dìreadh na Làirig’
Cha ’n fhacas riamh bàrr ort,
’Dol a shealg a Ghleann-Aithfhinn nam mòr-bheann.

’S beir an t-soraidh so bhuam-sa
Gu bun Meall a’ Bhuachaill’,
Dh’ fhios nan treun-ghaisgeach cruaidh th’ ann
a’ comhnuidh.


[TD 273]

Sliochd nan connspullach gleusda,
Mu an d’ aithris mi sgeula,
Gur ait is gur éibhinn leam beo iad.

’S mòr m’ aiteas bhi luaidh air,
Sibh ’thoirt dachaidh an dualchais,
Cha phrabairean truagha na seòid ud.

Ge b’ e thàirneadh nur féusag,
Agus fearg oirbh éirigh,
Cha b’ uilear dha léigh bhi ’g a chòmhnadh.

Luchd a dhìreadh na sléibhtean,
Le an cuilbheire gléusda
Nach mearachdaich léuda na h-òirlich’.

’N àm dhuibh crasgadh nam fuar-bheann,
’S a thighinn dlùth do ’n ghreigh uallaich,
Gu ’m biodh fuil an fhir ruaidh air a dortadh.

’N uair a theannadh sibh dlùth air,
’S a chaogadh sibh ’n t-sùil ris,
Gu ’m bu ghoirid an ùin’ a bhiodh beò aig’.

’N uair a thàirneadh sibh ’n rùdan,
’S a loisgeadh am fùdar,
Bhiodh an anail a’ brùchdadh mar cheò as.<eng>


CLV.

In the beginning of January, 1800, occurred an event which caused a profound sensation, not merely in Badenoch, but throughout the length and breadth of the Highlands. This was the catastrophe, generally styled “The Loss of Gaick”—<gai>Call Ghadhaig.<eng>

Captain John Macpherson was born at Glentruim, 1724. After having served for some time in the


[TD 274]

82nd Regiment, he became tacksman of Ballachroan, where he married late in life, and had a family consisting of one son, Colonel Gillies, of whom before, and two daughters. One of these married Captain Donald Macbarnet of the 92nd Regiment, and had, with other issue, Ensign James William, who died at Berhampore, 1832, aged 17 years, and Captain George Gordon of the Indian Army, who fell at the assault of Delhi, 1857, aged 33 years, and to whom there is a memorial in the Parish Church of Kingussie, erected by his brother officers.

At seventy-six years of age, and notwithstanding many sorrows which would have weighed down a spirit less brave than his, the old tacksman of Ballachroan still retained an enthusiastic attachment for the pursuits of the chase. And so it came about that on Monday the 30th December, 1799, Captain Macpherson took his departure for Gaick, accompanied by four attendants, with the purpose of returning on the following Friday, bringing home a supply of venison to garnish a Christmas feast on Monday, the 6th January. As the veteran sportsman was about to ride away from the door of Ballachroan, one of his servants, old Bell Campbell, whom I knew well, used to tell us how she took off one of her garters and with it fastened his plaid more closely about his shoulders, little thinking that in the course of a few days she would help to lay out his remains.

The weather, which had been very settled for some days, continued calm and frosty until Wednesday evening, when a terrific snowstorm set in, so unexpected and with such alarming suddenness, that persons, who happened to be abroad in various parts of the valley of the Spey, narrowly escaped with their lives. The daughter of one of these, who re-


[TD 275]

membered that awful night, informed me that her mother was returning from the weaver with a web of linen when she was overtaken by the tempest, in which she was like to have perished.

For forty-eight hours the storm continued with unabated fury until the afternoon of Friday, when it gradually subsided, leaving the air clear and cold, and the whole surface of the country covered with an immense depth of snow.

Friday night set in, but Captain Macpherson and his attendants returned not to relieve the anxieties of their friends, who, next morning, despatched a messenger to Gaick to obtain information as to their fate. At <gai>Lynn nam biorag,<eng> which was then occupied by a crofting community of Stewarts originally come from Athole, the messenger ascertained that a terrible catastrophe had occurred. The hunting bothie and its unfortunate occupants lay buried beneath a great mass of snow, whose smooth white surface told a silent tale of tragedy.

The messenger returned in haste to Ballachroan, and, next day being Sunday, a dozen men set out from the Church of Kingussie for the scene of the disaster. With the assistance of the <gai>Lynn nam biorag<eng> people, they made considerable progress in clearing away the snow that lay over the site of the bothie, but daylight failing them, they were forced to take their way home profoundly impressed with feelings of awful gloom.

The country being thoroughly roused, many persons resorted to Gaick to assist in recovering the remains of the unfortunate huntsmen. But it was not until Wednesday that four corpses, which had been discovered, were conveyed to the Strath. Owing to the heavy fall of snow in Glentromie, the


[TD 276]

company found it necessary to make their way along the ridges which were more free of snow, and which also afforded the most direct route. Descending by <gai>Allt a’ Ghiuthais<eng> and Ballintian of Nuide, they forded the Spey below Ballachroan. So keen was the frost, that the rough deal coffins which contained the bodies, stuck fast to the ground, whenever the bearers laid them down for a few minutes, to rest on their toilsome journey.

It was not until several months after this, that a passing foxhunter discovered the fifth body, in a wreath of snow about two or three hundred yards from the site of the bothie.

It is needless to tell how Gaick, the scene of this dire visitation, had for ages an evil reputation as a favourite haunt of the powers of evil, and how the presiding genius loci that, according to general belief, had brought about many a tragedy in that neighbourhood before, was supposed to have encompassed the destruction of the Black Officer and his associates, whose fate became mixed up in the popular imagination with old tales of terror.

Malcolm MacIntyre—Callum Dubh nam Protaigean—composed this dirge upon Captain John Macpherson, who—like himself—was a native of Glentruim. Malcolm MacIntyre was born at Dallannach shortly after Culloden, and was descended from a bard from Argyllshire, who had settled in Badenoch. A sort of Eulenspiegel, he obtained great notoriety throughout districts of Perth and Inverness, by the success with which he practised the art of jugglery. “Black Malcolm of the Tricks,” died at Callander, when on a visit to his brother, about 1830. His Punch and Judy show had been the great amusement at many a fair—<gai>Calum Dubh ’s na daoine beaga.<eng>


[TD 277]

Until lately, only one version of this remarkable elegy was believed to be in existence. It was published in Macpherson’s “Duanaire,” having been supplied to the editor by Mr James Macpherson of the Union Bank, Edinburgh. Mr Macpherson told me how he obtained it from an old woman belonging to Badenoch, who had spent a great part of her life in Arisaig, but eventually settled in Edinburgh, where he made her acquaintance.

A few years ago, however, when examining some papers in the Cluny Charter Chest, I came upon a number of MSS. of Gaelic poetry, and among them, in cramped and obscure caligraphy, was this version of Calum Dubh’s elegy on the Loss of Gaick.

It had evidently been taken down from the bard himself about the time that he had composed it, and presents some points of difference from that given in the “Duanaire.” Considering that upwards of three score years intervened between the dates when these two versions were put in writing, one cannot fail to be struck with the few changes that so long a period had occasioned. They can hardly be said to amount to more than some trifling variations of expression, which, no doubt, originated with the bard, along with an additional verse.

<gai>Cha ’n ìoghnadh mise a bhi dubhach,
Bheir feasgar a’ ghrian le bruthach,
Bheir mulad air sùilean sruthadh,
’S i ’n Nollaig so ’thionndaidh ’chairt-dubh oirnn;
Cha b’ éirig ’an àit’ an udhair,
Ged bhithinn gu bràth ri cumha,
Nach tig thu ’chaoidh slàn no do bhuidheann,
A dh’ imich a Ghàdhaig nan aighean.


[TD 278]

Na’n tigeadh dhachaidh an Caiptean,
’M Bràigheach, ’s Iain òg Mac-a-Phearsain,
MacPhàrlain, ’s an Granndach mar b’ ait leinn,
Cha bu dìobhail leinn an tacar;
Gar an tigeadh na féidh ghlasa,
’S ged bhiodh na mialchoin tachdta,
Na’n tigeadh tu ’s d’ òganaich dhachaidh,
’S an t-éug a bhi ’m prìosan fo ghlasadh.

Na’m bu mhise maor a’ phrìosain,
Cha ’n fhàgainn a chionta gun ìnnseadh,
Bhiodh mòran air paipeir ga sgrìobhadh,
Air beulaobh a bhreitheimh gu bhinne.
’S cinnte’ mur rachadh a dhìteadh,
Gu’n cuirt’ e gu grad as an rìoghachd,
’N a cheangal air slabhruidh de ’n iarunn,
’S a chumail a staigh leth-cheud bliadhna.

’N uair ’bhiodh tu ri fiadhach beinne,
’S tric a bha mise na m’ ghille
Ri d’ lodhainn, beagan air dheireadh,
A’ feitheamh ri fuaim do theine;
’N uair ’stiùradh tu ris an eilid,
Bhiodh toll air a bian le do pheileir,—
’Mharbhaich’ na h-earba ’s a’ choilich,
An dóbhrain, na liath-chirc’, ’s an t-sionnaich.

’S ceò’ar gach planaid a chì mi;
Tha ’n saoghal ’n a bhreugadair-ìnntinn,
Nach fhaic mi thu ’siubhal na frìthe,
Le d’ ghillean ’s le taghadh nam mialchon:
Iubhaidh chaol laghach, ’s i dìreach,
’Sgoilteadh an t-sùil air an dìsinn:
Bha cuaileanan geàrrta, gun chìreadh,
An là ’thaisg iad thu ’n clachan na sgìreachd.


[TD 279]

Cha ’n fhaca mi bàrr aig duin’ ort,
A dhìreadh nan càrn ’s nam mullach,
A mharbhadh nam fiadh ’s a’ mhunadh,
A tharruing nan lann, ’s bu ghuineach,
A bhualadh nan dòrn ’s a’ chunnart;
A labhairt aig mòd ’s tu ’b’ urrainn,
’Dh’ aindeoin no ’dheòin bu leat buidhinn
Gach cùis ’s am biodh mòrchuis a’s urram.

’S ged tha mi an so air m’ aineol,
’S ann a bha mi òg ’s mi ’m leanabh,
’An dùthchas d’ athar ’s do sheanar,
Fa dheas ann am bail’ ud nan gallan, (1)
Far am biodh crodh-laoigh air ghleannaibh,
Mnathan deud-gheal ’fuaghal anairt,
’S an talla ’n òilteadh fìon gun cheannach,
’S òr ’g a thoirt fial do luchd-ealaidh.

Rinn stoirm call ’am bràigh a ghlinne,
Bha cruinneachadh mòr anns an fhireach,
A’ giùlan dachaidh nan gillean,
’S an fhir mhòir nach gabhadh giorrag,—
Marcach each-sréin’ agus stiorap,
Ceannard-ceud ’an àm na h-iomairt,
Ite chorra sgeith’ do chinnidh,
Nach d’ rinn riamh de ’n t-saoghal cillean.

’S beag ioghnadh thu ’bhi ’thus nam fear barraicht’,
A laoich nach biodh tada mu’n mhalairt,
A phaigheadh fear ’thogail na carraid,
Bu dìleas dhut Alasdair Garrach,<eng>


(1) This was Phoness. Sons of this house celebrated in their day as <gai>Gallanan Buidhe Fodha-rais<eng>—The yellow-haired Youths of Phoness—are buried in the Middle Churchyard of Kingussie.


[TD 280]

<gai>Mac-mhic-Raonuill is Gleann Garradh, (1)
Iarla Antruim, ’s Mac-mhic-Ailein,
Oighre Dhùn Tuilm nam fear fallain,
Dha ’n suaicheantas leòmhann is lamh fhala.

’S cruaidh an sgeul nach fheudar fhulang,—
Leann-dubh air do chlann a dh’fhuirich.
Bhuail ’n ceatharnach sàlaig bhuille,—
Tharruing e ’n lamh bho ’n uilinn:
Thuit am flùr ’s an gallan-mullaich,
Dh’ fhàg sud do bhrathair gun urras,
Mar Oisean an còmhnuidh ri tuireadh
’N déis bas fir Fhinn, ’s e dall air tulaich.

A dh’ aindeoin luchd gamhlais is mì-rùin.
Ma ’s urrainn domh gu ’n dean mi d’ innse,—
Bu chaiptean thu air sliochd Ghillìosa. (2)
Pearsanach do shloinneadh dìreach.
Choisinn thu ’m blàr a bha ’m Pìoraid, (3)
A leag an trùp Gallda gu h-ìseal;
’S bann-Domhnullach ’thug glùn is cìoch dhut,
’Mach á stoc teaghlach Iarl’ Ile.

’S na ’m bu daoine bheireadh dhinn thu,
Bhitheadh tarruing air claidhibh chinn Ilich, (4)
An Cluainidh bhiodh toiseach na strìthe,
Bhiodh togail air fir na tìre,
Le caismeachd sgal na pìoba;
Cha b’ fhad’ a bhiodh d’ éirig ’g a dìoladh,
Mas tilleadh an cat mòr ’s a lìnne,
Bhiodh fuil air an lòn ’s feòil ’g a riasladh.<eng>


(1) His maternal grandfather and grandmother were respectively of the Families of Keppoch and Glengarry.

(2) Captain Macpherson was sprung from the Phoness Family, who were a branch of the Sliochd Ghilliosa—the race of Gillies.

(3) This reference shows that Captain Macpherson had accompanied his Chief to England in the Prince’s army.

(4) Swords of superior quality were made in Islay.


[TD 281]

<gai>Bu tu oid’ agus athair an fhéumnaich,
’Choibhreadh air aircich ’n an éiginn,
Na ’m b’ aithne dhomh dheanainn-sa léigh dhut,
Ghleidhinn cuach-iocshlaint na Féinne,
’Thug Fionn Mac-cumhail à h-Eirinn,
’S a thogas a rìsd bho ’n eug thu,
’S bhiodh Bail’-a’-Chrodhain fo éibhneas,
’S do mhaithean ag òl do dheoch-réite.

Còignear a bh’ anns an éiginn,
Shéid sneachd agus gaoth ás na spéuran,
A thilg an taigh-cloich ás-a-chéile.
Mo naidheachd bu bhrònach ri ’h-éisdeachd,
Nur faotainn ’n ur laidhe fo chreuchdaibh,
Gun chomas labhairt no sgeulachd!
Air son dòrtadh na Fola ’chaidh cheusadh,
Dean tròcair ri ’n an’maibh le réite.<eng>

This further verse is given in the “Duanaire.” Referring to the Black Officer’s son, Gillies, who was at the time an officer in the Clan Alpine Regiment, it must have been composed long after the rest of the elegy:

<gai>Guma slàn a thig è dhachaidh,
Oighr’ Iain-òig Mhic-a-Phearsain, (1)
An caiptein ’tha ’n arm Chlann-Ailpein.
Ma bheir e an dualchas o ’athair,
Eigheir a-mach air thùs feachd e,
’S bidh mùirnn ann an dùthaich nam badan. (6)
Cinnidh feur le meud na dealta,
An déigh dorcha na h-oidhche thig maduinn.<eng>


CLVI.

Duncan Mackay—Dunnacha’ Gobha—composed this elegy upon the Loss of Gaick, which, perhaps


(1) An impossible derivation of Badenoch in popular etymology.


[TD 282]

because first in the field, was better known than Calum Dubh’s, notwithstanding that the sense is occasionally rather obscure.

Several passages in this elegy gave great offence to the friends of the Black Officer, although the bard protests that his song was mainly composed with a view to stop the mouths of enemies. Full of eulogy for his associates, it contains no word of praise for the tacksman of Ballachroan, who is said to have often befriended Mackay. The poem, however, on the whole, undoubtedly reproduces the general feeling among the people, in connection with the tragedy of Gaick.

<gai>An Nollaig mu dheireadh de’n cheud,
Cha chuir sinn an cunntas nam mìos;
Gu ma h-anmoch thig i ’rìs,
Bu ghrìomach a bhean-taighe i.

Cha d’ fhag i subhailteach sinn,
Cha d’ fhuair i beannachd ’s an tìr,
Cha d’ thàinig sonas r’a linn,
Ach mi-thoilinntinn ’s anshocair.

Shéid a ghaoth ’am frìth nam fiadh,
Nach cualas a leithid riamh,
’S chuir i breitheanas ’an gnìomh,
A bha gun chiall, gun fhathamas.

Bu chruaidh an cath ’san séideadh garbh,
As nach b’urrainn aon fhear ’falbh,
’Dh’ ìnnseadh ciamar chaidh an t-sealg,
Dhe ’n làraich mhairbh ’thoirt naidheachd
dhuinn.

Rinn sinn an cruinneachadh fann,
’S cha b’ann gu cluich air a’ bhall,
Ach ’thoirt nan corp as an fhang,
An gnìomh a bh’ ann bu ghrathail e.


[TD 283]

Bha ’n t-Othaichear Dubh air an ceann,
Chuir e cùl r’a thigh ’s r’a chlann;
Nan tuiteadh e ’n cath na Fràing, (1)
Cha bhiodh a chall cho farranach.

Bha cruaidh fhortan dha ’san dàn,
Thionail e fear dhe gach sràid,
Gu bothan nach do choisrig iad,
Mu thoiseach snaim nan clachairean.

Dalladh a’ bhreitheanais chruaidh,
’Mhort e fhéin ’s na bh’ann de shluagh;
Bha Prionns’ an athair mu ’n cuairt,
’S gu ’n d’ fhuair e buaidh an latha sin.

’S duilich leam ni eile th’ ann,
Air am bi mòran a’ cainnt,
Bha eirbhir nan corp air a cheann
Na dh’ iompaich ann am plathadh iad.

Fhuair a’ cholunn céusadh cruaidh,
’S a’ ghleann dorcha ’s nach robh truas,
Mu’n do thog na spioraid suas
Gu sonas buan nam flaitheas iad.

’S géur na saighdean ’n cridh’ an t-sluaigh,
Bho ’n d’ thog e ’chreach ’san anuair:
Ach biodh bhur dòigh ’am fuil an Uain,
Gu ’m faigh sibh ’n suaimhneas roimhibh iad.<eng>


(1) Although the Napoleonic wars were going on at this time, the Black Officer had, of course, taken no part in them. I do not know when he prosecuted the work of recruiting with such fell resolution. It may have been during the Seven Years’ War, or the American War of Independence. We know that in the course of these wars, numbers of the youth of Badenoch served in the army. If Captain Macpherson forsook his wife and children, it was only to go to Gaick for a few days’ sport, and for the good of his house.


[TD 284]

<gai>’S coma ciamar thig am bàs,
Co dhiù ’s a’ mhuir no ’s a’ chàrn,
Moladh sibhse Rìgh nan gràs,
Gu bheil Fear-téarnaidh ’feitheamh ruinn.

Na tugaibhse breith lochdach, luath,
Air ciamar thàinig an uair;
’Sann o’n Bhreitheamh Mhòr tha shuas
Gheibh daoine duais an abhagais.

Recruitigeadh dubh gun àgh,
Cha robh riamh leis ach ’na spàirn,
’S chuir e saltraigeadh dhe ainm,
A bhios luchd-anacainnt ’g aithris air.

A’ chasg mi-rùin ’us droch sgéil, (1)
Tha trian m’òrain-sa gu léir;
’S tha teaghlach Baile-Chrodhain fhéin
A’ cur mo spéis ’an amharus.

Dòmhnull Mac-Fhionnlaidh nam beann,
Dòmhnull na Tulaich a bh’ ann,
Le lodhainn ghasda gun fheall,
’Us Séumas Grannd a’ feitheamh air.

Is mòr an ionndrain e ’n àm
A bhi ’car faoghaid feadh bheann,
Eadar machair shios nan Gall,
’Sa suas gu ceann Srath-Fhaireagaig.

Bu ghill’ e ’bheireadh spòrs do rìgh,
Le ’choin ’s le ’ghunna neo-chlì;
Bha e connspuinneach ’san strìth,
’S bu mhìn ’sa ghabhail rathaid e.<eng>


(1) If it were really, as he says, chiefly in order to stop the mouth of maligners that he composed this elegy, it must be allowed that he accomplished his task very imperfectly.


[TD 285]

<gai>Donnachadh Mac-Phàrlain (1) gun fheall,
Bu deadh fhear-an-tighe bh’ ann;
Làmh fhoghainteach an srath ’s an gleann,
Nach faiceadh call an atharraich.

Bu mhath leis pailteas mu làimh,
’S cha b’ ann gu ’fhalach air càch,
Air a sporan cha bhiodh snàim,
’N uair ’thigeadh àm a chaitheamh dha.

B’ fhear spòrs e, comuinn ’s gràidh,
Ged thug e seal uainn air chall,
Mu ’n dh’ fhàs e odhar, anart chàich,
Thug pailteas làmh gu cairidh e. (2)

Bha Iain òg à Fodharais ann,
An geard a’ bhaile rinn e bearn;
Ged dh’ fhàgadh sin athair dall,
Cha b’ innisg ann ’sa’ bheatha s’ e.

Bha e òg gu tigh’nn a’ m’ chainnt,
Cha robh m’ eòlas air ach gann,
Tha mi ’cluinntinn aig luchd-dàimh,
Gu ’m b’ ionndrain anns an talamh s’ e.

A cheathrar a fhuair pronnadh chnàmh,
Tha an latha ’tighinn gun dàil,
’N uair ’dh’ fhosglar leabhar nan gràs,
’S am faighear sàbhailt’ fhathast iad.

Is lòn d’ ar n-anmaibh bhur sìth,
’S bhur n-ainmeanan fhaighinn sgrìobht’,
’N òighreachd a’s gile na ghrian,
A choisinn Righ nan aingeal dhuinn.<eng>


(1) He lived at Tigh an Ailein, near Phoness.

(2) The body of this unfortunate youth having been found as described in the introduction, it would appear that he must have endeavoured to escape the fate which overwhelmed his associates in the hut.


[TD 286]

<gai>Gach neach ’tha ’g imeachd fo an spéur,
’Their gur h-e a neo-chiont féin,
’Tha ’ga shaoradh bho dhroch théum,
Tha spiorad bréig’ a’ labhairt ris.

Sguiridh mi thuiridh nach fhiach,
Cha dean mi tuilleadh ’chur sìos,
’S dona ’n ceòl do ’n Nollag i,
Aig a ro-mheud ’sa sgaradh sinn.

Ach bruidhnidh ’n linn a thig an àird,
Am mìle bliadhna so slàn,
Air a’ bhreitheanas so bh’ ann,
’S an sgrios a bh’ anns a’ chathadh ud.

Gàdhaig dhubh nam feadan fiar, (1)
Nach robh ach ’na strìopaich riamh,
’Na ban-bhuidsich ’toirt ’na lìon,
Gach fear le ’m b’ mhiannach laidhe leath’.

O, dùisgibh-se mu ’m fàs sibh liath,
’S dlùithibh bhur cas ris an t-sliabh,
Féuch gu ’m bi bhur fasgadh deant’,
Mu ’n téid a’ ghrian a laidhe oirbh.<eng> (2)


CLVII.

In this dirge, or death-song, Calum Dubh nam Protaigean laments the untimely death of John Macpherson, who shared the fate of the Black Officer at Gaick. This youth, commonly called Iain Og, was the son of Alasdair Mac Uilleim, and


(1) Gaick was often spoken of as <gai>“Gàidhig dhubh nan seachd coireachan.”<eng> i.e., “Dark Gaick of the seven corries.”

(2) These lines have been inscribed on a memorial cairn that was erected a few years ago on the site of the ill-fated bothie, along with the names of Captain Macpherson and his companions in the chase.

[TD 287]

belonged to a family of Macphersons residing in the neighbourhood of Phoness,—being in all likelihood a relative of the tacksman of Ballachroan. His father, who was old and blind, is, in these verses, supposed to give expression to his grief on receiving tidings of the death of a beloved son.

<gai>Leam bu mhùirneach an comunn
Dh’ fhalbh gu sunntach mu ’n Nollaig do ’n àird,
Shealg air righ nan damh donna,
Ged fhuair sibh garbh choinneamh ’sa ghleann.

O bhur bàs bu mhòr mulad,
Ghabh sibh tàmh ’an tigh munaidh ’s e fàs,
Dh’ fhàg sud fir air bheag céill’,
Agus mnathan gun bhréid air an ceann.

’S ann ’an Gàdhaig nan dùnan
Fhuair sibh m’ ailleagan ùr ’s e gun chainnt;
O ’n là dhealaich an úir riut,
’S tearc ’am aighear ri sùgradh gu bràth.

Chaoidh cha dean mi gàir’ éibhinn,
Cha mhò théid mi ’dh’ éisdeachd luchd-ciùil;
’S ite chorra mo sgéithe
An deis thaisgeadh an <eng>cage<gai> fo ’n uir.

Dh’ fhàs thu dàcheil ’n ad phearsa,
’S bha ball-seirc ort ri fhaicinn ’sa ghnùis,
Cha robh cron ort ri àireamh
O do mhullach gu sàilean do bhuinn.

Bu tu marbhaich’ a’ choilich,
Agus earban ’an doìre nan geug,
Agus nàmhaid na h-eilid,
Dé mu ’n ceilinn nach tolladh tu béin.

’N uair ’bha Eubh anns a’ ghàradh
Thug i an t-ubhal a mhàn dheth ’n ghéig,
Dh’ ith i ’s thug i do Adhamh
’S dh’ fhàg sud sinn air dhroch chàradh ’nan déigh.


[TD 288]

’Thì ’thug seachad na h-àithntean
Air dà chlàr ’n uair ’fhuair Maois iad ’sa’ bheinn!
Seall an taobh so le càirdeas,
Cuidich mise ’s mi ’n dràsda gun chéill.

’S mi mar chraoibh air a snaidheadh,
’S i air lùbadh ’s air laidhe a mhàn,
Bha ’m fiùran b’ àird air a chrathadh,
’S ’cuid ùbhlan gun ghleidheadh air an làr.

Bhuail an t-aog orm a shaighead,
A’ m’ dhà thaobh chaidh gath nimhe an sàs,
’An àit’ aoibhneis a’s aighir
Tha cràdh bhuairidh ’g am chaitheamh gach là.

Aig meud snidhe mo ghruaidhean
Dh’ fhàs iad uaine mar dhuilleig de ’n dris,
No mar choltach a’ chluarain
Air a bhuain a’s air ’thilgeadh a lios.

Tha do chàirdean bochd truagh dheth,
’S iad ’g ad ionndraichinn uap’ ’s thu fo ’n lic,
Mar sgaoth sheillean ’am bruachan
’Caoidh na meal’, air am fuadach’ o’n sgip.

’S fhad bhios mise ri tuireadh
Mu ’n tig mial-chu no duine o’n dùn;
Gàdhaig riabhach mo dhunaich,
Rinn stoirm fiadhaich a mhunaidh droch thùrn.

Dh’ éirich cur agus cathadh,
Tein’-adhair agus gaoth as gach taobh;
’S brònach mise ’g a leughadh
’S nach tig thu chaoidh dh’ éisdeachd mo sgeul.

Dh’ éirich stoirm anns na speuran,
Theich na reultan ’s a’ ghealach air chall,
Cha robh grian ann ri fheuchainn,
Chluinnteadh farum aig geugan le srann.


[TD 289]

Chluinnteadh fuaim aig mac-talla
Mar thuinn mara tachairt ri tìr gharbh; (1)
Ruith ’n uair ’s bhris a’ ghlainne,
’S chaochail snuagh nam fir gheala ’s an dealbh.

’Thì dha ’n éirich sinn rùisgte
’Nuair ’thig Slànuighear nan dùl fos ’nar ceann,
Glac an anam ’s gabh cùram
Dhe na daoine chaidh mhùchadh ’sa’ ghleann.<eng>


CLVIII.

Early in the nineteenth century, among the workmen engaged upon the construction of Telford’s road that winds along the picturesque shores of Loch Laggan, were two brothers from the Isle of Skye. One of them, when crossing from Dalwhinnie to Feith Ghobhar by the drove track, suddenly took ill in consequence of drinking cold water, and died almost immediately. He had burst a blood vessel. After seeing him decently interred in St Kenneth’s Church-yard, the surviving brother hurried home with his mournful tale. As he took his way, he composed this beautiful threnody. No sooner were the friends apprised of the distressing event, than a company of them set out for Laggan, exhumed the recently interred body, and carried it back all the way to Skye.

For long afterwards this song was very popular among the Skyemen, who used to come every season after Michaelmas, to Brae Badenoch to do the sheep-smearing.

<gai>Aig Ceann Loch Lagain so thall,
Dh’ fhàg mi ’n tasgaidh mo ghràdh,
’S cha tig e gu brach an taobh so.<eng>


(1) Or, <gai>“Mar thuinn mara ’s i tighinn gu garbh.”

[TD 290]

’S ann am Baideanach shuas,
’Measg nan Domhnullach suairc,
Dh’ fhàg mi ’n cadal mo luaidh ’s cha dùisg e.

Dh’ fhàg mi ’m Baideanach thu,
’Measg nan Gaidheal ’fhuair cliù—
Fir a’ Bhraighe chaidh leam chun ùir ort.

Ged a bha mi leam fhin,
Cha robh cairdean a’ m’ dhith,
’N àm togail ’na chill air ghiùlan.

’N ciste ghiuthais chinn chaoil,
An deis a dubhadh bho ’n t-saor,
Chunnacas thairis bhi taomadh ùir ort.

Ach tha mise ’do dheigh,
Mar bha Oisean ’s na Feinn,
’Gabhail an rathaid ’s cha leir dhomh taobh dhe.

Bha fuil a’ sruthadh bho d’ bheul,
Nach gabhadh caisg ach sior leum,
’S i bhi tighinn bho d’ chléibh na brùchdan.

Ach, fhir a stiureas a’ ghrian,
Bho ’toiseach gu ’crioch,
Glac ’anam fo sgiath do chùraim!<eng>


CLIX.

This elegy was composed by Duncan Fraser, Balgown—<gai>am Breabair Mòr Frisealach<eng>—upon the death of Colonel Duncan Macpherson of Cluny, which took place at Cupar-Fife in 1817. After an ancient mode, it is intended to express the feelings of his bereaved lady, Catherine Cameron of Fassifern, but it is evident that the bard passes occasion-


[TD 291]

ally to describe the sorrow of a whole clan and country.

The lamented chief was the only son of Cluny of the ’45, and was born in 1750, while his father was a fugitive among the mountain fastnesses of Laggan. At the time of his birth, his mother, daughter to Simon, Lord Lovat, was residing in a cottage which stood near the blackened ruins of her old home, and was attached to the <gai>àth,<eng> or kiln. Hence the sobriquet <gai>“Dunnach na h-àth”<eng> which was popularly applied to her son.

<gai>O! gur mis’ th’ air mo sgaradh,
’S cha ’n e ’n t-Earrach a liath mi;
Ach na chaill mi an Cùpar,
’S mòr mo dhiùbhail ’ga iargainn.
Chaill mi deagh fhear-an-tighe,
Ceannard cheatharn is cheudan,
’S tric a bhuannaich an latha,
An àm catha ’ga dhìoladh.

Nam b’ ann an sabaid na ’n carraid,
Chaidh do gheàrradh cho luath bhuainn,
’S lionar bratach bhiodh sgaoilte,
Agus faobhar ’g am fuasgladh;
Bhiodh Mac Shìmidh na h-Aird ann,
’S Cloinn Chamarain a’ chruadail.
Mar ri Tòisich is Granndaich,
Mu ’m biodh annran na gruaim ort.

Do chinneadh féin Clanna Mhuirich,
Bhiodh iad uile gu d’ òrdugh,
Fearail, treun, ascaoin, fuileach—
Sud na curaidh’ nach sòradh;
’Dol ri aodainn a’ chatha,
Claidh’ leathann ’nan dòrn-san,
Ann an aobhar mac d’ athar—
’S iad gun athadh gun sòradh.


[TD 292]

’Nuair sgaoileadh tu d’ bhratach,
Dh’ éireadh feachd an Taoibh-tuath leat,
Tha e soilleir ri fhaicinn,
Chìte cat ann ’na gruaig-se;
Dh’ éireadh leat-sa buaidh-làrach,
’Nuair bhiodh càch air an ruaigeadh;
Fàth mo mhulaid ri aithris,
Thu bhi ’n drasda fo ’n fhuar lic.

Dh’ éireadh sud ann do thional,
Mìle fear agus pìobair,
’Dol fo smachd do chrois-tàra,
’Nuair bhiodh d’ àrdan a dìreadh.
Sud na curaidh gun sgàth,
’N am gàbhdair’ ’ga dhìoladh,
Dh’ fhàgadh cuirp air an làraich—
Fuil ’fàsgadh ’s i ’sìoladh.

Marcaich treun nan each uaibhreach!
Ann an cruadal na ’n gàbhdair,
An geall-ruith na leum
Bu leat féin am buaidh-làrach.
’S math thig ad agus cleòc dhuit,
Mar ri bòtan ’s spuir airgid;
Bu léin’-chrios do Righ Deòrs’ thu,
An àm comhdach’ nam fear-ghleus.

Righ! bu mhath thig dhuit seasamh,
An lathair seisean na binne,
A’ chumail a cheartais,
’S a’ chur as do luchd mhì-ruin.
Bu cho chinnte leum d’ fhacal,
’S ged a ghlaiste le h-<eng>ìnk<gai> e,
Leam is cinnte do dhachaidh,
Ann am Flathais na fìrinn.

[TD 293]

Tha do bhaile gun smùid de—
E gun sunnd gun cheòl-gàire,
Tha na dorsan ann dùinte,
Cha ’n eil sùird ann mar b’ àbhaist;
’S bochd leam gaoir do chuid tuath’,
Mar threud fuadan am fàsach,
Cò bith fear ni am bualadh,
Cò a thuainigeas càs dhaibh.

Bha ’fhasan dha d’ theaghlach,
’Bhi gu graoineachail pàirteach,
Uasal, cinneadail, caoimhneil,
Mòr-sgoinn do luchd dànachd:
Céir a’ lasadh an coinnleirean,
’S fhaide oidhch’ aig do cheatharnaich,
’S iad ’g òl air fìon daithte,
As na casgaichean deàrr-làn.

Gheibhte sud ann do chlobhs’,
Fonn pìob’ agus clàrsaich,
Mac-talla ’g am freagairt,
Fuaim fheadan gun àireamh.
’Nuair sgaoileadh tu d’ bhratach,
Chìte cat ann gu h-arda;
’S ’n uair a dh’ fhaicteadh a mach i,
Gum bu leats’ am buaidh-làrach,

Cha téid mise gu coinneamh,
Là Nolluig na Samhna,
’S cha téid mi measg cuideachd,
’S ann a shuidheas mi ’n aon àit’.
Bho nach tigeadh an Tighearn,
’S e bhi rithisd na shlàinte:
Cha bhiodh feum air an lighich,
’S bhiodh sinn dithis dhe sàbhailt’.


[TD 294]

Cha b’ e crìonach na coille,
Bha ’san doire ’san d’ fhàs thu,
Ach na gallanan prìseil,
’Fhuair dìreadh gu ’n àilgheas.
Mur gearrt’ iad, cha snìomht’ iad,
Gus an spìonta gu làr iad:
Craobh de ’n chuilionn nach crìonadh,
’S ioma freumh bha gu ’n àrach.

An Tigh Chluainidh nam bratach,
Bithidh gach aiteal mar b’ àbhaist,
Tha a’ ghrian oirnn a’ soillseadh,
’S tha an t-oighre an làthair:—
Oighre dligheach an fhearainn,
Tha ’na leanabh an dràsda.
Saoghal buan an deagh bheatha,
An àit’ d’ athar, gu bràth duit!<eng>


CLX.

Alexander Macdonald, son of Ranald of Aberarder, joined the army at an early age. On retiring from active service, he became tacksman of Moy on the Duke of Gordon’s property, and was known as <gai>Othàichear a’ Mhagh’<eng>—the Officer of Moy. He married Juliet Macdonald of Dalchoishnie in Rannoch, and had a numerous family of sons and daughters. All his sons went abroad with the exception of Ranald, who became an officer in the 92nd Regiment, and died at Fort William. Latterly Captain Alexander Macdonald acquired the farm of Inverlair in Lochaber, upon which his popular designation was changed to <gai>“Othaichear Inbhir Làir.”<eng> His brother, Archibald, became proprietor of Lassintullich in Rannoch.


[TD 295]

This lament for <gai>Othaichear a’ Mhagh’<eng> was composed by Archibald Macdonald. It contains a reference to a duel which Captain Macdonald fought on behalf of Struan Robertson, in which he overcame his antagonist to whom the curious sobriquet of “Velvet” was applied.

<gai>Fhuair mi sgeula nach iarrainn,
Dh’ fhàg mi éisleanach, cianail a’ bròn.
Mi ’bhi ’cumha ’n duin’ uasail
’Bha gu sìobhalta, stuama gun spòrs;
Cha b’ i ’n àbhaist leat tilleadh,
’N àm dol anns an iomairt fo stréup:
’S oil leam càradh do chinnidh,
’S tric an sùilean a sileadh nan deur.

Gur a mis’ ’tha fo airtneal
’G amharc fochair nam beann,
F’ar an éireadh tu fallain.—
’S tric a dhìrich thu ’m bealach ud thall;
Dà thaobh Coir’-a’-Charra
’Gabhail fàth air daimh chabrach nan eang;
Bha thu d’ nàmhaid do ’n eilid,
’S tric a rinn do làmh deireas d’ a maing.

Lean thu ’n dùthchas bu dual duit,
A bhi ’direadh air uairibh do ’n bheinn;
Gunna-glaic’ air do ghualainn,
’S do chuid chuilean gu h-uallach air éill,
’Shealg an ùdlaiche ghruamaich,
’S ged a b’ aigeannach luaineach a leum,
Dh’ fhàgadh pudhar do luaidh’ e
Gun astar, ’s cha ghluaiseadh e eang.

Tha do chlann ’s iad fo éislean,
Gun aighear, gun éibhneas ri ceòl.
’S goirt le muinntir do dhùthcha,
Thu bhi d’ laidhe ’s an ùir fo na bhòrd;


[TD 296]

As nach deanar leat éirigh,
Gu là breitheanas Dhé air an t-slògh.
Ciod e ’m fàth bhi ’g a leughadh,
Bho ’n is cubhaidh dhuinn géilleadh do’n fhòid.

Is beag an t-ioghnadh do chéile,
Bhi fo airtneal, ’s fo éislean, ’s fo phràmh,
Gun a coimhleapach aice,
Bho nach d’fhuair i riamh blaisbheum no tàir;
Bu ghlan sìoladh do leaca,
Fo ’n t-sùil nach muthadh le gealtachd roimh nàmh.
Cha b’ i ’n eucoir a chleachd thu,
Ach bhi furanach pailt ri luchd dàimh.

Bha do chùl mar an smiaran,
Bha do bhian mar a’ ghrian ri tràth-nòin:
Gruaidh dhaite ghlan, lìontaidh,
’S i le deirge air fiamhachd an ròis;
Fo mhala gun mhiothlachd.—
A bhi foilleil, cha b’ fhiach leat, a sheòid,
’S aig am iomairt na strithe,
Co bhuidhneadh ort cis ri uchd gleòis?

’S fhad bhios cuimhn’ air do chruadal,
’S a bhios meas agus luaidh air d’ fhear-arm;
Anns na baitealan còmhraig;
B’ e do bheus, a’s do nòs, a bhi garg.
’S tu nach tilleadh romh ’n fhuathas,
’N uair a dh’ éireadh an tuasaid gu borb;
Bhiodh lann thana chruaidh ghéur ort,
Leis am buaileadh tu ’m béum a bhiodh searbh.

Bhiodh claidheamh ceann-bheairteach, guineach,
A’ chinn-Ilich fo d’ uilinn ’s fo d’ sgéith;
Biodag charraigneach, bhreac, fhuilteach,
Nam bann-airgid ’s i fulangach géur;


[TD 297]

’S mairg a tharladh romh d’ chunnart,
’N uair dh’ eireadh d’ardan, a churaidh nan éuchd.
’S òg a dhearbh thu bhi d’ dhuine,
’S dh’ fhàg sid “Bhelbhet” fo uireasbhuidh léigh.

’S lìonmhor cùis anns ’na sheas thu,
Agus càs anns ’na nochd thu do ghnìomh.
Ann an aobhar rìgh Shasuinn
Bha thu àrdanach ascaoineach, dian;
Dh’ aindeoin luaidhe na lasrach,
B’ e bhi ’n toiseach a’ bhaiteil do mhiann:
Bhiodh do ghillean ’ad thaice,
’S iad gun chùram ’s tu rompa dol sìos.

Bha thu ’d shaighdear romh armailt,
Bha thu measail an Albainn gu léir;
’S ’n uair a chaidh tu a’ d’ dhùthaich
Mar dhuine, bha cliù ort thar cheud.
Sheas thu Còirneileir Strùthain—
Ghabh thu ’chunnart ’s a chùram ort fhein.
’S aig àm lasadh an fhúdair,
Thuit do nàmhaid gun lùs air an fhéur.

Is beag an t-ioghnadh an cruadal
Bhi daingeann, dlùth, fuaight’ ann ad bheachd,
A’s a liuthad fuil uasal
Bha ’sìoladh ’ad ghruaidhean mu seach;
As na cuislichean prìseil,
Dh’ ól thu ’m bainne bha brìoghmhor an reachd;
’S dh’ fhàg sid neart ann ad ghuailnean,
Gu d’ luchd-nàimhdeis a bhualadh mi smachd.

Bha thu ’bhroilleach nam Bràghdach—
Clann-Dòmhnuill nach sgàthach ’s an tòir;
Mac Fhir Obar-Ardair
’G an robh uaisle a’s càirdeas gu leòir;


[TD 298]

’S bho nach urrainn domh àireamh,
Na dh’ fhaodainn a’ ràdhainn mu d’ chòir;
Bi’dh mi ’guidh’ air an t-Slàn’ear
Gu ’n robh d’anam ’am Pàrras aig glòir.<eng>


CLXI.

That gifted and genial old lady, Miss Barbara Macpherson of Ralia—<gai>Barbara ni ’n Eoghainn<eng>—composed an elegy upon the death of her sister-in-law, the wife of <gai>Fear an Ra-léith,<eng> of which unfortunately only this quatrain remained in the memory of my old friend <gai>Bean an Deubhasdanaich.<eng> It makes allusion to the extensive journeys of her brother on both sides of the border, in connection with the trade in black cattle which was for long one of the main industries of Scotland. Many Border farmers, like Sir Walter Scott’s grandfather, engaged in it, and often amassed considerable wealth.

<gai>’S ioma ceum a bha d’ astar
Eadar Shasunn is Albainn;
Ach cha d’ riaraich thu d’ aigne
Gus ’n a thachair sibh ’m Beannachar.<eng>


CLXII.

Mr John Macdonald, tenant of the stage-house and farm of Garvamore, was for long one of the most notable residents on the upper waters of the Spey. A song in honour of <gai>Iain Bàn a’ Gharbhath<eng> will be found at page 105. Dying in the year 1830 he was lamented in the following stanzas by his old and fast friend Captain Lachlan Macpherson, Biallid.


[TD 299]

Mr Macpherson, who was one of the sons of James Macpherson, Crubinbeg, entered the army, and, having served for some time in the 52nd Regiment, eventually settled in his native valley as tacksman of Biallid—a position he retained until his death, which took place in 1858, at the good old age of eighty-nine years. He married a daughter of Mr Ewen Clark, Nessintully, who was a full cousin of <gai>Fear an Rà-leith<eng>—that Lachlan Macpherson, tacksman of Ralia, to whom reference has already been repeatedly made. Mrs Ewen Clark was a member of the family from which Field-Marshal Sir Patrick Grant sprang.

Captain Macpherson was possessed of a vigorous and well-cultivated intellect, sound judgment, and practical common sense. Prudent and successful in the management of his own affairs, he was much looked up to by others. A staunch friend, and, when thoroughly roused, a dangerous foe, he occupied a position of no small influence. He occasionally invoked the Muse both in Gaelic and English, and this fine elegy shows that he could do so to good purpose in his native tongue.

Both these tacksmen were esteemed in their day as among the best of countrymen, and it is pleasant to observe that their descendants are represented in the county, in the persons respectively of Mr and Mrs Macpherson of Corriemony. (1)

Many of the characteristic qualities attributed to the subject of this death-song, are closely descriptive of the author himself.

<gai>A Righ! gur diomain an saoghal,
’S ioma mealladh is faoineis a th’ ann;
Mar neul is e ’caochladh,
Theid fhuadach ’s a sgaoileadh na dheann.<eng>


(1) Mr Macpherson died in 1904.


[TD 300]

<gai>Mar cheathach an aonaich,
Air a sgapadh le gaoith bharr nam beann,
’S ionann sin a ’s clann-daoine,
Gun fhios thig an t-aog aig gach àm.

Fhuair mi sgeula, ’s bu shearbh e,
Chaidh mo leirsinn gu h-anmhunnachd le bron,
Gun d’ eug Fear a’ Gharbha,
Mo chreach-léir tha e dearbhta gu leoir.
Ach ma chaidh thu air falbh uainn,
Ged a shiubhlainn leth Alb’ agus còrr;
Cha ’n fhaic mi ’n coinneamh no ’n armailt,
Fear do bheusan, do dhealbh, is do neoil.

Dhomhsa b’ aithne do bheusan,
Bha thu ciuin mar ghath gréine tre cheò;
Bha thu ascaoin na ’m b’ fheudar,
’S ann a’ d aodann a dh’ eireadh an colg.
’S tu chaisgeadh an eucoir,
’S a sheasadh gu treun leis a chòir;
Is cha ghabhadh tu déis-laimh,
Bho fhear a thug ceum ann am bròig.

Bu tu deadh fhear-an-tighe,
’S ann a bhitheadh an caitheamh mu d’ bhord;
Bu tu pòitear na dibhe,
’N uair a tharladh dhuit suidhe ’s tigh-osd’.
Bha thu fialaidh—’s bu dligheach,
Bha thu ’shìolach nan crìdheachan mòr;
A’ d’ cheann-riaghailt air buidheann,
’S ann bha ’chiall ann am bruidhinn do bheòil.

Bu tu sealgair a’ mhunaidh,
’S ro mhaith dhireadh to mullach nan sròn;
Le do chuilbheir ’s maith cumadh,
’S tric a leag thu air uilinn fear-cròic’.


[TD 301]

’S an àm dol air thurus,
B’ e do mhiann paidhir chuileanan borb;
Bu tu an t-iasgair air buinne,
Le do mhorgha geur guineach a’ d’ dhòrn.

Faodaidh ’n eilid ’s an ruadh-bhoc,
’S an damh mullaich, bhi uallach ’s an fhrìth,
Tha ’m bradan tarra-gheal a’ cluaineis,
Feadh shruthaibh is chuartaig gun sgìos.
Tha do mhial-choin a’ bruadar
Bhi ’s a’ gharbhlaich a’ ruagadh an fhéidh,
Tha na h-armaibh fo ruadh-mheirg,
’S lamh gu ’n dearbhadh ’s an uaigh o cheann tìm.

’S ann bha ’n aoidh ann ad aodann,
’S tric a rinn thu rium faoilte, ’fhir mhoir!
’S tric a ghlac thu air làimh mi,
’S bhiodh d’ fhuran is d’ fhàilte ’na lorg.
’S tric a ruisg mi mo bheachd riut,
’N uair bhiodh smuairean no airtneal ’gam leòn,
’S chuireadh sùgradh do chnacais,
Air chùl gach aon acaid bhiodh orm.

Gura cruaidh leam do chlann,
’Bhi fo mhulad, fo champar, ’s fo bhròn;
Dh’ fhalbh an taice ’s iad fann de,
O ’n chàireadh do cheann-sa fo ’n fhòid.
Nam biodh éiridh ’s a’ Cheapaich,
’S gu ’n éighteadh na gaisgich fo ’n t-sròl,
Gu ’n robh leus air a’ bhrataich,
Fear cho treun ’s a bha ac’ bhi fo ’n fhòid.

Ach ’s e tha mi ag acain,
Thu bhi nis anns an Lagan a’ tàmh, (1)
Air do dhùineadh fo leacan,
’S nach dùisg thu ’s a’ mhaduinn bho d’ phràmh.<eng>


(1) He was buried in Cille Choinnich, i.e., St Kenneth’s Churchyard.


[TD 302]

<gai>’S e mo dhiùbhail mar thachair,
Thu bhi ’s an ùir an tasgaidh a’ cnàmh;
Fhir mo rùin a bha smachdail,
Nach do chuir cùlaobh ri caraid no nàmh.<eng>


CLXIII.

The subject of the following death-song was Lieut-Colonel Ranald Macdonald, Deputy Adjutant-General, Bombay. His father, Gilleasb MacAlain, tacksman of Gaskmore, was one of those commemorated by Miss Barbara Macpherson in her humorous fulling-song; while his mother was a daughter of Alexander Macdonald, Tullochcroma. Born in 1794, young Ranald entered the 92nd Regiment while still in his early teens. A brief summary of his distinguished military career has been given elsewhere in this volume. His death, which took place in May, 1848, occasioned general regret among a wide circle of friends by whom he was much beloved and esteemed. The strong hold which <gai>Othaichear na Cùil<eng> had obtained over the affection of the people of his native parish of Laggan, is indicated in the odes on pages 108-113. Archibald Macdonald, the author of these, composed this elegy upon his patron and friend, when the sad tidings were received of his death in a distant land. In Cluny Castle there is an interesting portrait of this typical Highland officer.

<gai>Sgeul a thainig oirnn air fairg,
Dh’ fhàg iomacheisteach mo chomhnuidh,
Gur cùis tha searbh i do ’d luchd-leanmhuinn
Do dh’ ard-ainm Chlann Domhnuill:


[TD 303]

Càch ’g a sheanachas ruinn le dearbhadh—
Thu bhi marbh gun chomhradh;
Gur tearc tiormachadh ar sùil,
O ’n chaidh an ùir ’g ad chomhdach.

Airsnealach dà thaobh bhraigh Spé,
Mu d’ dhéighinn anns an uair so,
Gur lìonmhor neach a tha fo éis,
’S iad éisleineach a gluasad;
Gach sean ’s gach òg ri cràdh ’s ri bròn—
’S an Còirneil bhi ’g am buaireadh,
Do bhàs a thiomaicheas gach feoil,
’S gu ’n d’ fhàg sud bròn air Cluainidh

’S ged a b’ òg a chaidh tu ’n arm, (1)
Gu ’m b’ iomraideach dhuit treubhantas,
Gnùis an àigh cha ghabhadh sgàth
’N uair bhiodh na blàir ’g an éigheach;
An aghaidh lasair agus luaidh,
’S e bhi suas bu bheus leat,
’S gu ’n aithnicheadh càch a dol ’n an dàil
Gu ’m biodh an trath dhoibh géilleadh.

Bha do shinnseara thar chàch,
’S iad ardanach, bras, meanmnach,
Bho Cheapaich chraobhaich, ghuirm nam peur,
Bu mhòr an euchd ged dh’ fhalbh iad;
Is tric a thog a’ bhratach shròl’
An comhdhail nam fear dearga,
’S a thug iad caisleachadh air càch,—
Bha ’n lamh ’s an lann cho marbhtach.<eng>


(1) Elsewhere we are told that he was but a child when he joined his regiment. So it was in the case of his cousin, Sir John Macdonald of Dalchoishnie. This high spirited officer appeared so unequal to the duty of carrying the colours when on parade, that some one wished to assist him. Whereupon, rejecting the offered aid, he replied, “You take them up when I let them fall.”


[TD 304]

<gai>B’ arda d’ urram ann an Lunnuinn
Thar gach duin’ a chualas,
’N uair thug Righ Uilleam dhuit le onair
An fhìor-rionnag luachmhor;—
’Bhi ’g a càramh air do bhroilleach,
’S cead a cumail suas ort,
A dh’ ìnnseadh ’chach sàr-ghnìomh do lamh
’N uair bha thu ’m blàr a’ chruadail.

Bhiodh frith le foirm, bhiodh greann is colg—
Do bhuirb ri ’d fheirg ag éirigh—
Dol nan dàil gun ghruaim gun sgath,
Bhiodh lann ’s an laimh bu tréine;
Chiteadh fàs-lomairt air càch
Le lùs do chnamh is d’ fhéithean,
A laoich an àigh! cha ’n fhuiligeadh tàir—
Tha ’d fhuil ro-ard ag éirigh.

Fhir a chruthaich sinn o thùs,
’S a thug dhuinn tùr gu léirsinn
Dh fhaicinn soilleir mar a ta
An crann is airde dh’ éireas!
’S gearr ’s an crìon éir e sìos gu làr:—
An déigh a bhlàis thig éireadh.
Gur cruadalach a chùis cho tràth
Do bhàs dhuinn bhi ’g a leughadh.

A’ chraobh a b’ fhearr’ a thainig riamh,
’S a fhreumhaich air Clann Domhnuill,
’N uair bu dosraich i ’n a fàs,
’S a càirdean an làn-dochais,—
An dùil gu ’n seasadh i fo bhlàth,
’S nach tigeadh fàillinn gleois ort:—
Sud i seachad, mac an sgàil,
’S bha sin mar fhàgail oirnne.


[TD 305]

Bu ghorm do shùil ’s bu ghlan do ghnùis,
Bu gheal ’s bu dlùth do dheudach,
Do bheul bha ciùin cha labhradh gnù,
’S cha ’n fhaicteadh mùig air d’ aodann:—
Caoimhneil cinneadail ri dàimh,
’G an toirt a càs na h-èiginn,
’S a sporran fial, b’ e sud do mhiann,
Bhi riarachadh nan deurach.

Tha do pheathraichean a’ d’ dhéigh,
’S iad éisleanach gun sòlas;
Cha ’n ioghna sin ’s gur tròm an call,
Gur fada thall do chomhnuidh.
Am brathair caomh an ciste chaoil,
’S gur e do ghaol a leòn iad;
’S o ’n a chuireadh thu ’s an ùir,
Gur dùith dhoibh a bhi brónach.

Dh’ fhalbh an combaist ’s a’ chairt-iuil,
Gu ’n bhrist an stiùir ’s b’ e ’m beud e;
Mar luing air chuan gun chroinn oirr’ suas,—
’S ann duinn gur cruaidh an sgeula.
Ach ’s dochas leinn ged tha thu uainn,
A’ d’ dhachaidh bhuan nach treig sinn,
Bhi guidh air colmain ghil an Uain
Do thoirt-sa suas gu Hénas.

Bha thu cuimhneachail air caraid,
’S ro-mhath do na déircich,
Fhuair thu ’m beannachd—leat bu mhàl e—
Choisinn thu dhuit fhéin e.
O’n chaidh do chliù thar neach air thalamh.
Ann am feabhas céille,
Guidheamaid air Righ nan aingeal,
D’ anam a bhi gléidhteach.


[TD 306]

Cha ’n e sanntachadh air òr,
Ged tha mo phòcaid aotrom,
Thug dhomh inntreachdainn air dàn,
No mhosgail càil mo gheur-ruith;
A thaisbeanadh do chliù do chach,
’S do’n àl a thig ’nar déigh-ne;
Is cumar cuimhn’ air gu là bhràth—
’S a chairdein tha mi réidh dhe.<eng>


CLXIV.

Mr Donald Macrae, banker and writer in Kingussie, composed this elegy on his wife, Christina Stewart, who died within a year of their marriage. She was my aunt, being one of the six daughters of Alexander Stewart and Jean Campbell. Mr Macrae died in 1872.

<gai>Cha ’n eil dhe na bhliadhna,
Deich miosan air falbh,
Bho fhuair mi còir air mo leannain,
’S bha i ceanalt’ an dealbh.
Thug mise mo ghaol dhì,
’S bha i aonda gun chearb;
Bha i siobhalta, suairce,
’S cha chualas a fearg.

Cha robh ann mo rùn-sa
Aon smuain ’s an robh giamh;
Cha robh ann do chridhe
Aon sireadh nach b’ fhiach.
Bha d’ inntinn cho saor dhomh,
’S bha i ’taomadh le ciall;
Bu tu caraid an fheumnaich,
Cha do thréig thu e riamh.


[TD 307]

’S beag mo shunnd ri thighinn dhachaidh
S cha ’n eil mo thlachd ’s an tigh-osd’;
Ged a theid mi air astar,
Cha ’n eil taitneas ann dhomhs’,
Cha ’n fhaigh mi toil-inntinn,
Ged a chruinnicheadh mo stòr;
Cha ’n eil ann ’s an t-saoghal,
Ach faoineas is sgleò.

A’ cheud la chunnaic mi ’n tùs thu,
Thug mi rùn dhuit gun dàil,
Dh’ aithnich mise le firinn,
Nach robh sìth dhomh gu bràth;—
Mur fhaighinn còir air a’ mhaighdein,
Nach robh m’ aoibhneas aig cach;
Fhuair thu ’n t-urram, ’s tu thoill e,
Bha do shoillse gun smàl.

Bu bhoidheach rugha do ghruaidhean,
’S ann bha ’n t-suairce ’n ad ghnùis,
B’ ainneamh samhladh do bhilean,
Dù ’ghorm, cridheil, do shùil;
Mala chaol air deadh chumadh,
A’ cumail oirr’ dian;
Slios mar chanach ’s a’ Cheitein,
’Fàs leis fhein air an t-sliabh.

’S mi ’nam shineadh air m’ uilinn,
Fo mhulad ’s fo bhròn,
Tha mo shùilean gun sireadh,
A’ sileadh nan deòir.
Cha ’n fhaic mi mar b’ àbhaist,
Mo ghradh tighinn ’am chòir;
B’ eibhinn, aighearach, dìleas,
A Christina! do phòg.

[TD 308]

C’ ait’ an robh anns an duthaich,
A thigeadh dlùth air mo rùn?
Ann am buaidhean ’s an giùlan,
Fhuair thu cliù bho gach aon.
Ard-mheangan a’ lùbadh
Le meas ùr air gach taobh,
’S fuil rioghail nan Stiùbhart,
’Ruith an duthchas ’s a’ chraoibh.

Ged a theid mi do ’n leabaidh,
Cha n’eil mo chadal ann buan;
Fad na h-oidhche gu maduinn,
Tha do chagar ’nam chluais.
Bidh mi bronach a’ dùsgadh,
’S e mo dhiubhail ri luaidh;
Nach cluinn mi do ghàire,
Mar a b’ àbhaist, gun ghruaim.

Cha ’n ioghnadh mar tha mi,
Chaidh mo ghradh chuir fo ’n fhòid;
Mus gann a fhuair mi air làimh i,
Rinn i m’ fhagail fo leòn.
Ach ged ’dhealaich am bàs sinn,
Tha n-ar Slànuighear beò;
’S tha mi ’n dùil ann an àm math,
Gu ’n cuir thu fàilt orm ’an glòir.<eng>


CLXV.

Of the numerous family that was born to Lachlan Macpherson, tacksman of Ralia, several sons obtained distinction in the army. Ewan, the eldest son, was an officer in the service of H. E. I. C; and having amassed a considerable fortune, purchased the estate now styled Glentruim, which is presently


[TD 309]

in the possession of his son, Lieut-Colonel Lachlan Macpherson. (1)

Two of the daughters of Fear an Rà-léith, who were the last surviving of his children, were overtaken by a tragic death on the 16th November, 1866, when the Falls of Truim House, where they resided, was burned to the ground. This melancholy occurrence cast a gloom over the whole country.

Emily Macdonald, who had been for eighteen years in the service of the unfortunate ladies, composed the following elegy, in which she laments their fate. Long afterwards, it appeared in one of the Inverness newspapers, having been inserted, as I suppose, by the late Mr Donald Macfadyen, minister of Laggan. It was never ascertained how the fire originated, although various surmises were discussed.

How well do I remember shortly before, seeing one of these picturesque old ladies as she slowly made her way, preceded by some henchman, through the crowd that filled the streets of Kingussie on the day of the feeing market, and well do I remember, one raw winter morning, being taken to a height above the same village to see the volume of smoke that arose from the ruins of their home.

<gai>’S mi bhi dìreadh nan stùcan,
’Cur mo chùil ri tigh Chrùbainn,
’S mòr mo mhulad am mùthadh tha air.

’S ann an clachan na creathaich, (2)
Mu choinneamh na gréine,
A dh’ fhàg mi Miss Séine ’n a smàlan.<eng>


(1) Col. Macpherson died in 1904.

(2) There was an ancient burying-ground on the site of the house, called <gai>Cladh a’ Bhlàir-dubh.


[TD 310]

’S ann a dh’ fhàg mi na h-uaislean,
Anns an rùm mar bu dual daibh,
’S bu bhanail an gluasad ’s bu chomhnard.

’S ann a dh’ fhàg mi ’n dà phiuthair,
Anns an aon rùm ’n an suidhe,
’S beag a shaoil leam-s’ nach suidhinn-s’ ri ’m bheò ann.

Ach mu ’n d’ thainig cóig uairean,
Fhuair mi rabhadh bha cruaidh dhomh,
Iad bhi ’n an guaillean ’n an seòmar.

Ach, fhir a chruthaich an saoghal,
Agus anamannan dhaoine,
Tha mi ’n dùil gu ’n d’ thug thu saorsainn an glòir dhaibh.

Thainig breitheanas tìmeil
Oirnne uil’ anns an àm ud,
A dh’ fhàg sinne mar chaoraich air àilean

A dh’ fhag sinne gun bhuachaill’
Gun a h-aon ghabhadh truas ruinn,
Ach, fàth mo ghearain, nach d’ fhuair iad n-ur cnaimhean:

Gu n-ur cuir far ’m bu dual dhuibh,
Ann an carraigh nan uaislean,
Far ’m beil ’chuid eile bha suairc dhe bhur cairdean.

Bha sibh ’thoiseach nan uaislean,
Bho Noid is bho Chluainidh,
Gar nach robh iad mu ’n cuairt duibh gu ’r tearnadh.

Nam biodh Gleann Truim is am Màidsear,
Aig a’ bhaile mar b’ abhaist,
Cha bhiodh a’ chùis mar a bha i ’s an àm ud.

Bu trom ceum a’ pharsain,
Tighinn ’g ’ur n-ionnsuidh ’s a’ mhaduinn,
’S a chridhe ’g a sgaradh mu ’n déighinn.


[TD 311]

Bha ’choir’ air Miss Charlotte,
Gur i rinn an fhàillinn,—
Cha leig mis’ gu bràth air a taobh e.

Ach ma bha coir’ ris aig daoine,
Thig latha nì ìnnseadh,
Gar nach leighis sin m’ ìnntinn-s’an drasta.

Tha snigh air mo ghruaidhean,
Le bhith tric oirbh a’ smaoineach,
’S liuthad latha mu ’n cuairt oirbh a bha mi.

Chaill mi nise na cairdean,
Nach rachadh seachad gun m’ fhaighneachd,
’S luchd sheasadh mo chòrach nam b’ fheudar.

Bithidh mi nise co-dhùnadh,
Le deoir air mo shùilean,
Bho nach aithne dhomh ’n cliù uil’ a leughadh.<eng>


CLXVI.

The persons lamented in this elegy are Lieut.-Col. Cluny Macpherson, C.B., ob. 1885, and his two sons. Col. Duncan Macpherson, C.B., ob. 1886, and Brigadier-General Ewen D. Macpherson, ob, 1900.

<gai>TUIREADH NAN TRI TIGHEARNAN.

’S mi bhi ’greasadh air chuairt
Do Bhraigh Bhaideanach shuas,
Cha ’n ’eil aighear no surd air m’ inntinn;
O Sith Choinnich a nios
Gu ruig clachan na sgìr’,
Tha luchd-turuis fo nial ’n an ciadan.

Cha ’n e caismeachd nan arm,
No ’chuir faghaid ri gleann,
Cha ’n e cleasachd air bard thug cruinn sinn;


[TD 312]

Tha ceol tiamhaidh nam piob,
Caoidh nach mairionn an laoch—
Mo leir-chreach! gu ’n do caochail Cluainidh.

’S e bhi taomadh na h-uir’
Air do chiste ’s a’ chruids’,
Dh’ fhag cho muladach, ciùrrt’ do chairdean;
’N Cladh Tharanain mhàn,
Far nach gluais thu chum sealg,
Sios fo fhasgadh nan crann ’g ad chàramh;

Far nach cluinn thu fonn piob’,
Iomairt ghaisgeach ri stri,
Toirm gaillinn, no sian a’ gheamhraidh;
Air do chruinneachadh bhuainn
Chum do shinnsre ’s an uaigh—
Deadh Shliochd Choinnich fhuair buaidh ’s na blaraibh.

’S lionar larach do cheum,
Eadar monadh ’s uisg Spe,
’S Taobh Loch Lagain nan sleibhtean ceothar;
Eoghainn oig a’ chuil duinn!
’S trom do chadal, ’s cha duisg,
Is cha ’n eisdear a chaoidh do chomhradh.

Fhuair thu urram—’s gu ’m b’ fhiu—
’S tu fo bhratach a’ chruin,
Ann an armailt do dhùch’ ri chomhraig;
Sin bu dual dha do sheors’,
Bhi gle dhian anns a’ choir,
’S cha b’ e tionaladh òir no storais.

Gu ’n do shìolaich an sàr
O fhuil uasail Chlann Dàidh,
’S o na Camaranaich bhlath nach geilleadh;


[TD 313]

S bidh Mac Shimidh na h-Aird
’Tagair coir ort le daimh,
’S tha Claim Fhionnlaidh Bhraigh Mhar de d’ dhìlsean.

Righ! gur cuimhne leam fein
Thu fo bhreacan na feil’—
’S tu ’n ad oganach treun air forlach—
Mu Choir Ardair nan stuc,
Le do ghunna ’s do chu,
’N cois seann Tighearna Chluainidh allail.

Gu ’m b’ ard flathail a shuil,
B’ e ceann-feadhnaidh ’n Taoibh-tuath,
Bha e cumadail, cruaidh, mar Ghaidheal;
Bha e iriosal, ciùin,
Ri luchd-cinnidh ’s ri tuath;—
Bu chùl-taic e an cùis na bantraich.

Thainig Dunnachadh ’n a dheidh,
’S bu mhath dhearbh e a mheinn,
Ged a ghlacadh an t-eug cho trath e;
’N Tel-el-Kebir, ’cuir ruaig,
Gu ’n do bhuannaich e cliu,
Leis an Fhreiceadan Dubh fo ’cheannsal.

Chi mi caisdeal nan tùr,
Far am minig bha muirn,
’N uair a dh’ eightear gu cuilm na féileachd;
Ach tha samhchair a’ bhroin
An ait farum is ceoil,
Bho ’n a thasgadh na seoid ’s an reidh-lic.

Tha leann-dubh agus gruaim
Air Clann Mhuirich ’s an uair,
’S iad mar chaoraich gun iul, gun bhuachaill;
’S gur e mhiadaich an cradh,
Nach do chinnich ort al—
Oighre sheasadh ’n ad ait an Cluainidh.


[TD 314]

Thug am bas sgriob cho lom
Air craobh-thuinidh nan sonn,
Nach ’eil faillean ach gann a lair dhiu;
’S e ar n-iarrtas an drast,
Saoghal fada thar chach,
Dh’ aon mhac athar—’s e Maighsdear Ailbeart.

Tha ceann-tigh Sliochd Ghillios’,
O bhun Feisidh so shios,
Gu ro-chinneadal, dileas, suairce;
Dithis eile nach diult—
Baile-’bhile ’s Gleann Truim—
Na ’n robh ’n srol-bhratach uain ’g a fuasgladh.<eng>

T. S.


CLXVII.

These elegiac lines were composed after visiting Badenoch for a few hours in the late autumn, several years ago.

<gai>Tha sneachda bàn nam mullaichean
Mar fhuar-bhrat air an fhraoch,
’S gur cianail fuaim nan duilleagan
’G an iomairt leis a’ ghaoith;
Mi dìreadh mall do bhruthaichean,
Bhraigh’ Buadhnaich ghlais an fheòir!
Gur léir dhomh thall na tulaichean
A shiubhail mi gle òg.

Tha ’n Ceathramh laigh ro dheisearra,
Gu preasach, cnocach, ard,
’S an Lagan mhàn an taice ris,
’Am fasgadh na Craig-Bhalg;
Tom Barrai’ mor bu sheasgaire,
’S Tom Cheireig biorach, lom;—
’Bhi sealltainn air na chunnaic mi,
A dhùisg mo chridhe gu fonn.


[TD 315]

Bu bhinn air feadh nan coilltichean,
Bho Ghóineig sìos gu Ràt,
An smeòrach ’seinn mu ’n t-soillearachd
La bòisgeanta ’s a Mhài;
Ach thar gach àit, gu ’m b’ aite leam
Na baird mu Uisge Spé,—
Bhiodh feadaireachd ’s ceol-gair’ an sud,
Gu àm dol fo nà grein’.

Is grinn leam nis ’bhi beachdachadh
Gach leacainn agus lòin—
Tha Clachan geall Chinn’-Ghiùbhsaich null
Air uchdan Tom a’ Mhòid;
Tha cuideachd mhòr de ’m chairdean ann
An tasgaidh bhuain fo ’n fhòid;
’S ged theid mi dh’ fhios an carraighean,
Cha ’n fhaigh mi guth am beoil

’M Fhéill Cholum-Chill’ chaidh seachad
Thainig teachdaireachd an Righ,
A ghiùlain uam le séimh-ghuth ciùin
An neach nach dùisgeadh strì.
Bu mhòr do chridh’ ’s mheinn dha càch,—
Bha beannachd bhochd leat riamh;
’S le moladh binn a shiubhail thu.
’G ad liubhairt féin do Dhia.

Bu mhinig ’teachd air d’ aire-sa
Na lathaichean a dh’ fhalbh,
’Am Baile Chrothain aighearach,
’S Pitmean nan glaic ’s nan crann.
Bhiodh Cùil an Lìn, an Fhàire Dhubh,
’S Allt Làirigh air do smuain;
’S bu ghaolach leat na comh-aoisean
Chaidh romhad thun na h-uaigh’.

[TD 316]

Thig caochladh air an t-saoghal so,
Mar ghaoith ’am badan ceo;
’S na fardaichean a b’ aithne dhuinn,
Cha ’n fhaicear leinn ni ’s mò;
Ach shuas ’s a’ bhaile bhunaideach,
Tre ’n fhuil a bha ’g a dòrt’,
Bidh comhdhail bhuan, gun dealachd, ann,
’S gach anam ’seinn le ceòl.<eng>


CLXVIII.

The subject of this elegy was the Rev. Donald Macfadyen, minister of Laggan, who died in November, 1880, after an incumbency of eleven years. Ever warm-hearted and generous in his intercourse with the people, he was a devoted pastor, and an excellent preacher. His death was sincerely deplored in his own congregation, by whom he had been greatly beloved. Shortly after his death a handsome stone was erected to his memory, bearing this inscription:—

<gai>MAR CHUIMHNEACHAN AIR
MR DOMHNULL MACPHAIDEIN
MINISTEIR LAGAIN
A CHAOCHAIL AIR A’ CHEUD LATHA DE’ N GHEAMHRAIDH 1880
DUINE A CHOISINN MEAS ’S AN EAGLAIS AGUS URRAM ’NA DHUTHAICH
CHUIR A CHOMHTHIONAL AN CARRAGH SO AIG A CHEANN.<eng>

Mr Andrew Grant, a native of Laggan, then a youth connected with the sorrowing congregation, and now resident in the village of Dores, (1) composed the following death-song, which displays much true feeling poetically expressed:—


(1) My good fellow-countryman departed this life in June, 1905.


[TD 317]

<gai>A Baideanach chualas
Sgeul bais a bha cruaidh,
A dh’ fhàg dubhach gach fardach
Anns a Ghài’ltachd mu ’n cuairt;
Cha ’n ioghn’ sinne bhi cràiteach,
Air a bhàs deanamh luaidh,
Tha Sgìr Lagan ’na fàsach,
An déis a charamh ’s an uaigh.

Fhuair sinn buille ro chràiteach,
Maighstir MacPhàidein thoirt bhuainn,
Ann am meadhon a làithean,
’S ann an àilleachd a shnuaidh.
Co sheasas na cùis,
Na chàireas dhuinn suas
A’ bhearn sin a dh’ fhag e
Ann an Gài’lteachd ’n taoibh-tuath?

Sinne chaill am fear-stiùiridh,
A bha cùr’ mach mu ’n treud,
Cha do sheasaidh an cùbaid,
Na b’ iùlmhor na e.
Bhiodh a bhriathran cho druidhteach
Ris an drùchd air an fheur,
S bhiodh a shealladh cho caoimhneil
Ri gath baoisgeil na gréin’<eng>

Then in slightly altered measures the bard continues his mournful theme. This plaintive <gai>tuireadh<eng> or <gai>caoine<eng> reminds one in various respects of the elegiac Muse of the Sister Isle.

<gai>Tha mi ’g a fhaicinn mar b’ à’ ist dhomh—
Le fìamh-gàire ’n a aodainn,
’Se ’g ìnnse mu ’n t-Slànuighear
’S mar a ghradhaich E ’n saoghal;


[TD 318]

Tha mi faicinn a lamhan
Sìnte ’n aird ris na neamhan,
’S tha mi faicinn a shùilean,
’S iad a brùchdadh le deuraibh.

B’ e bhi ’g a fhaicinn ’s a chùbaid,
An reul iùil anns na speuraibh,
’S tric dh’ éisd mi le dùrachd
Briathran cùbhraidh a bheul-san;
’S tha mi nise an dùil
Nach d’ thug mi m’ ùine gun aobhar,
Ged tha mi ’n diugh ciùrrta
Air son gu ’n d’ dhùineadh a bheul-san.

Bha maise na diadhachd
Mar sgiath air gach taobh dha,
’G a thogail an àird
Os cionn a bhràithrean ’s an t-saoghal;
Cha téid mi idir a dh’ ràdh
Air son fàbhar an t-saoghail,
Gu ’m faic sinne ’n a àite
Fear a chàireas am beum dhuinn.

Bha e mar iolair ’s an iarmailt,
Air a sgiathaibh ag éirigh,
Le bhi sealltuinn ’s a’ ghréin,
’N uair bhitheadh feum air an t-saoghal.
Bha a shùil-s’ anns a’ ghrein ud,—
Gu ’m b’ e Crìosd am Fear Saoraidh;
’S bho ’n a phàigh E na fiachan,
Gu ’n robh Trianaid toirt gaoil dha.

Bha e ’n a dhuine cho àillidh,
’S a dh’ àraich an saoghal,
Bha ìomhaigh an t-Slànuighir
Air a chàramh ’n a aodainn.


[TD 319]

Cha b’ e ’thlachd a bhi càineadh,
Na tàir thoirt do dhaoine
’S ann bha ’bhuadhan cho àrda,
’S iad toirt barr air a chéile.

’S bu mhath am fear dùthch’ e
Anns gach cùis bha e feumail,
B’ e n lighich’ ro thùrail,
Faotainn cliù bho gach creutair.
’S lìonmhor ’n diugh feadh na dùthcha,
Tha brùit’ bho ’n a dh’ eug e,
’S bho ’n a chuireadh ’s an ùir e,
Tha call nan sùilean le deuraibh.

Bidh mi nise co-dhùnadh,
Dh’ fhalbh mo rùn ’s gu ’m b’ i beud e,
Bho ’n tha fios aig an dùthaich,
Air a chliù ’s air a bheusan.
Fhuair esan a chrùn
Choisinn ùmhlachd ’n Fhir-Shaoraidh,
’S tha e seinn air a chliù
Mar tha mi ’n dùil anns na neamhaibh.

Och! brònach ’s mar tha sinn,
’S i ’mhàth’r tha mi caoineadh,
O’n a shearg an luibh-sgàile
A dh’ fhàs d’ i ’g a comhdach.
Righ! gur cianail a tha i,
’S mac àluinn a h-òige
Bhi sìnnte fo ’n fhàillein,
Dùint’ an clàir-chist le òrdaibh.<eng>


CLXIX.

The Fourth and Fifth Dukes of Gordon—Duke Alexander and Duke George—enjoyed a marvellous degree of popularity among all classes of the


[TD 320]

tenantry and others on their vast estates. This was notably so in the case of the ancient Lordship of Badenoch.

Shortly after her marriage with Duke Alexander, the Duchess Jane was so captivated by the sylvan beauties of Kinrara that its small farm-house, and the more commodious lodge to which it finally gave place, became her favourite residence for over forty years of her life. Staying here for many months at a time, she made herself familiar with the occupants of every cottage in the country far and near, in whom she took the most kindly interest. With the clergy and tacksmen she maintained constant intercourse, and, through her influence, members of their families often obtained commissions, cadetships, and posts of one kind or another. Her son, the gay and gallant Marquis of Huntly, was her inseparable companion, and it thus came about that he was to a great extent brought up in Badenoch. A keen sportsman, he penetrated the most remote and inaccessible mountain fastnesses on the upper waters of the Spey in pursuit of his favourite recreation. At every party and gathering he was the idol of the people.

The Duchess Jane died 11th April, 1812, and fifteen years afterwards he succeeded to the family titles and estates upon the death of his father, which took place 17th June, 1827.

But hardly had the Marquis come into possession of his ancestral domains, when Duke Alexander’s Trustees unhappily found it necessary to alienate part of them, in order to relieve to some extent the pressure of debt which had accumulated upon them. Thus, in course of a few years, the Gordon Estates in Lochaber—extending to the neighbourhood of


[TD 321]

Glencoe—were sold, and also those in Badenoch, with the exception of Kinrara and Kincardine.

The severance of a connection which had subsisted for so many centuries between the House of Huntly and those districts, occasioned keen regret alike to the Duke and to the inhabitants. To bid formal farewell to one whom they had held in high esteem as their feudal superior and steady friend, the people of Badenoch arranged a meeting at Kingussie, to which he was invited. The Duke being in indifferent health, his medical adviser endeavoured to dissuade him from accepting an invitation which would involve a long journey and severe strain, but His Grace had determined to be present, saying with characteristic chivalry—“I will go, should I be brought back a corpse.”

The proceedings of the day began with a general muster on the Dell, when a large number of stalwart Highlanders who had been reared upon his lands passed in procession before the Duke. One of these, the Rev. Coll Macdonald, a native of Laggan, told me with some complacency that he was selected to occupy the foremost place in his rank, on the side next the Ducal party.

After this, various sports were carried on until the evening, when a banquet was held, which was designed to be the chief and culminating feature of the demonstration. Needless to say that the greatest enthusiasm pervaded the assemblage. I have conversed with some who were present in that company, having the Duke of Gordon as their honoured guest under circumstances so pathetic. But, as is commonly the case with aged persons when their feelings are deeply moved by some exciting memory, the kindled eye, a certain flush,


[TD 322]

and hurried utterance were the most eloquent feature of their legend. Some account of the proceedings is given in the prints of the day; and the late Dr Carruthers of Inverness, in a beautiful passage in his “Highland Note-Book,” recalls the Scene at that dinner table.

A few years more and the same company were arranging for the erection of the monument at Kinrara.

So far as I am aware, Duke George’s last visit to Brae-Badenoch was made in order to be present at the baptism of the late Colonel Duncan Macpherson of Cluny. After the interesting ceremony, contrary to expectation, he returned to Pitmain, where he spent the night, having dined in the company of a number of his former tacksmen and old companions-in-arms, who were scattered over the farms of Badenoch, and whom he had hastily summoned together on his upward journey.

The old stage-house, so commodious and primitive, had been the scene of many an event connected with his family. Here a banquet had been held annually to mark the birthdays of himself and his father, and here his health had been pledged on countless other occasions of one kind or another, including the festivities attendant upon rent collections. Here, too, his mother’s remains had, by her own direction, lain in state for three days, before being carried the last stage of the long journey from London to Kinrara. Here, from his boyhood he had often been in the habit of residing for a few days at a time.

On 28th May, 1836, the death of the Duke of Gordon took place in London. His body was conveyed to the vicinity of Gordon Castle in one of the


[TD 323]

King’s ships, and the burial took place at Elgin about the middle of June,—immediately before St Columba’s Fair at Kingussie. The gloom which the departure of one so beloved and honoured had cast upon a gathering usually devoted to business and merry-making is referred to in the following elegy, in which the bard gives expression to the profound regret with which the tidings of Duke George’s death had been received throughout the bounds of a district with which he had been so long and intimately connected.

His removal marked the close of an epoch, and a displacement of the old order of things. (1)

<gai>’S ann aig deireadh na Bealltuinn
Thainig teachdaireachd thruagh,
Thug fios duinn nach maireann
Sàr-fhlath an Taoibh-Tuath:—
Bhi ’g ad chàramh fo ’n fhuar-lic,
As nach gluais gu là luain,
Dh’ fhàg bruaidleanach m’ inntinn,
’S chuir snigh air mo ghruaidh.

Chì mi muinntir na dùthcha,
’S iad bhi cruinn air là féill’,
A gach sgìreachd mu ’n cuairt,
Mu dhà thaobh uisge Spé;
Ach an àit dhaibh bhi subhach,
Tha leann-dubh orr’ gu léir,—
Mar oidhche gun ghealaich,
Gun reannaig ’s an speur.<eng>


(1) The social and martial activities of the Duke are well known, but probably it will surprise most readers to be informed that he was an elder in the Church of Scotland, and sat as a member of the General Assembly.


[TD 324]

<gai>Cuid ri seanachas mu ’n Bhann-Diùc,
’S mu ’n Mharcuis ’na àillt-ghallan òg:—
Mu Chinn-ràthra nan ùr-choill,—
’S e gun iomairt, gun sùgradh, gun cheòl;
Cuid toirt sgeul air an fhàbhar
A rinn riu Diùc Alasdair còir;
Ach ’s e ealaidh gach aithris,
Nach till fear n-ar gràidh oirnn ni ’s mò.

Bu tu ’n t-uachdaran fearainn
Nach sàraicheadh tuath,
Làmh bu tréine ’s a’ chatha,
Chuireadh Frangaich ’nan ruaig:
Ged bu gharg thu ’n tìm comhraig,
B’ e do nòs a bhi suairc,
Ged bu chalma do chridhe,
Bha d’ aghaidh maighdeanail ciùin.

Bu tu ’chrann b’ àirde ’s an doire,
Bu tu ’m fìreun ’measg eunlaith nan speur,
Bu tu clach-cheangail na drochaid,—
Ar cùl-taic ri uchd feum.
Bidh gach linn dianamh iomraidh
Do ’n linn thig ’nan déigh,
Caoidh ’s ag acain ar n-ionndrain,
Fhir nan iomadaidh bheus!

Tha trom-chianalas taodhal
Air gach beinne, gach coille, ’s gach allt,
Far am b’ ait thu le d’ bhuidhheann
Dh’ uailsean, ’ghillean ’s ’choin-seang.
Tha n-ar prìomh-dhaoine b’ fhiù leat,
’N an sìneadh ’s an-ùir-thigh fo phràmh,—
Na clachan mór air dol sìos oirnn,
’S na clachan crìon bhi tigh’nn ’n àird.


[TD 325]

’N uair thogadh tu bratach,
’S lìonmhor gaisgeach a sheasadh mu ’n cuairt,
Fhuair an àrach o ’n òige,
Eadar Lòchaidh ’s a’ Ghearmuich gu tuath;
’S bho nach fhaic sinn thu tuillidh
Aig aon chruinneachadh sluaigh,
Slàn le mòralachd fhearail,
Slàn le greadhnachas cùirt.<eng>


CLXX.

A few paces to the left on entering Kingussie Churchyard, one may see falling into decay a grey moss-grown tombstone to which a peculiar interest belongs, inasmuch as it bears the oldest Gaelic sepulchral inscription in Badenoch. Should the eye of any of the scholars who long ago used to assemble in Kingussie Parish School, and frequented its playground, fall upon the epitaph given below, it will probably awaken in their breast a memory of the past. For it was reckoned somewhat of a test of Gaelic scholarship among us, whether a boy could or could not read these lines; and the present writer can recall the pride with which he won his spurs in this essay, at a comparatively early age.

Curiously enough I am indebted to pupils attending Kingussie School now, for the exact lettering of the inscription, which, at the request of my friend, the Rev. Dr Mackenzie, they deciphered for me: not without difficulty, as it had become well nigh illegible.

<gai>A pharantaibh ghradhaich mo ghaoil
Bha uair is bu bhinn leam ur guth
A chaneil saoi air nach luidh leon
Na carraig air nach chaochail sruth.<eng>


[TD 326]

SECTION EIGHTH.

SONGS OF THE SOUL.

The spiritual songs which were sung throughout Badenoch had, with few exceptions, their origin elsewhere. The sufferings and death of our Saviour formed the main theme of most of the older hymns which, in rude, unlettered times, fulfilled no unimportant part in disseminating a knowledge of the Gospel story among the glens of the north. Towards the close of the eighteenth century, however, the hymns of Dugald Buchanan were greatly in vogue. They may be regarded as having been partly a result of the new religious movement then in evidence throughout the Highlands, which was destined to have such far-reaching and enduring influence upon the faith and habits of the people, and partly the cause of bringing it about.

More recently Patrick Grant of Strathspey composed hymns which, though greatly inferior in power of thought and expression to those of the mystic of Rannoch, obtained even wider popularity,—<gai>“An Dachaidh Bhuan,” “An t-Ait anns an robh Eoin,”<eng> and <gai>“Eifeachd am Fuil an Uain,”<eng> being the chief favourites.

But Badenoch possessed among its native denizons a poetess who composed hymns quite equal to rank with those which have been mentioned, whose genius embraced some of the leading special charac-


[TD 327]

teristics of the bards of Rannoch and Strathspey. This was <gai>Bean Terra Dhamh.<eng>

Mary Macpherson was the daughter of Ewen Macpherson, parish schoolmaster of Laggan; no doubt the same who had accompanied James Macpherson to the Hebrides, to collect the remains of Ossianic poetry. To what branch of her clan she belonged is unknown, although it seems probable that she was connected with the Strathmashie family. Improving her special opportunities, she acquired a good education.

On her marriage, she took up her abode with her husband at the place with whose name she was for the future to be associated. <gai>An Torr Dhamh<eng> was a diminutive holding of poorest land, situated upon an arid height near the opening of Glen Truim. In this neighbourhood resided several families of the name of Clark, and to one of these her husband belonged.

It would appear that he must have died comparatively early, for, in one of her verses, she describes herself as living on a hillock alone, her dear ones having departed. Tradition tells that, for long, an unsympathetic daughter acted as a grievious thorn in the good woman’s side, but that eventually the two were united in a common love for Christ. It is right to add that the indigence which attended her latter years in Badenoch, was relieved by the loving attention of friends who appreciated the holy beauty of her life and work.

Like Buchanan, she was a pleasant companion, being possessed of a genial, happy-hearted disposition, while a sprightly wit and pungency gave zest to her conversation. In consequence of an accident, which is said to have been the immediate cause of


[TD 328]

her seeking the Great Physician of souls, she required the aid of crutches; but, notwithstanding this, it is related that on one occasion, when destitute of the means of subsistence, she betook herself to dancing for joy in the consciousness that she was an heir of God. She was of portly form, and, going abroad, was commonly seen in a curch and blue cloak.

A considerable time before her death she removed to Perth, where she resided with a married daughter. From various circumstances it may be inferred that her departure from Badenoch took place towards the end of the eighteenth century. How long she survived after this, it is impossible to say: perhaps until 1810, or even later.

The numerous traditions with regard to her, which were handed down in the country, have now mostly all died away. But people still point out the faint remains of the old homestead, among the brown braes, haloed by the genius and piety of Mary Macpherson. The situation of that humble abode, opposite Craig Dhu, and commanding an extensive view of the valley of the Spey, with the ancient battlefield of Invernahavon immediately beneath, was indeed calculated to arouse the Celtic muse.

Mrs Clark is believed to have composed no less than thirty hymns, which were put in writing. Two of these—Nos. CLXXIII. and CLXXVI. were published anonymously by Alexander Fraser, Inverness, the authorship being merely assigned to a lady of Badenoch—<gai>“Bean uasal a bh’ ann am Baideanach.”<eng> The same hymns are given by Rose in his interesting collection, along with a brief memoir of the poetess.

About a quarter of a century ago, the Rev. John Kennedy, now of Arran, edited these, and added a


[TD 329]

third, (1) which Gillies had published anonymously, though—it is believed—the work of Mrs Clark. The remaining three hymns I published a few years ago. They were discovered by me, under the superintendence of my dear friend, the late Provost Macpherson of Kingussie, in the Cluny Charter Chest, among papers which had been in the possession of Cluny Macpherson, who died in 1885, and which were kindly placed at my disposal by his son, Brigadier-General Ewen Macpherson. Hardly had I glanced over them, when, to my no small pleasure, I was able to identify them as forming a portion of the long lost poetry of <gai>Bean Torra Dhamh.<eng> I did so from the following considerations:—

1. They are all in the same handwriting, on letters addressed by relatives of the name of Macpherson to Mr Paul Kennedy, Castle Gavel, Perth.

2. There was one of that name connected by marriage with the Strathmashie family in Laggan.

3. <gai>Bean Torra Dhamh<eng> spent the close of her life in Perth, where she resided in the house of a son-in-law at the date given on the above-mentioned letters.

4. I recollect hearing the hymn beginning <gai>“Ceol cha ’n aill leam”<eng> quoted as hers upwards of thirty years ago, by one who expressed a preference for it above all her other compositions.

5. These three hymns are thoroughly in keeping with her genius, style, and language.


(1) No. CLXXIV.


[TD 330]

6. There were no other Gaelic hymns in which Cluny would have been so likely to take an interest as in those composed by this member of his clan.

On perusing those verses, it will be observed that they are couched in rich idiomatic Gaelic, and contain passages displaying a quaint originality of thought, combined with melody of diction rarely surpassed in Gaelic poetry of this class. It may be added that much patient labour was required to decipher the MSS.—not merely as regards the actual lettering, but, still more, in order to ascertain what vocables the letters were intended phonetically to express.


CLXXI. (1)

<gai>A Iehovah, Ard-Righ na Flathais,
Cia binn an ceòl leam bhi ’labhairt air d’ ainm’,
Dean fein mo sheòladh le d’ mhaitheas,
Chum d’ fhirinn fhoghlum ’s a ghleidheadh gun chall.
Duisg mo chuimhne ’s mo mheoghail, (2)
’S mo smuaintean iompaich gu teangadh gach grais;—
Do thoil-sa dheanamh mo raghainn—
’S na fag mi ’n di-chuimhn’ ’n uair thaghar do chlann.

’S e do mhòrachd gun choimeas,
A chuireas dòchas ’am anam is gràs,
Bho linn domh-s’ bhi am leanabh,
’S lionar tròcair’ a shil orm bho d’ laimh;
’S tu mo stòras nach teirig,
’S dhe do sholas tha m’ eathraichean lan
Gus am beoil ’s a’ cur thairis,
’N uair is deonach leat ’bheannachd chuir annt’.<eng>


(1) Several words in the MS. of this hymn are exceedingly obscure.

(2) <gai>Meomhair.


[TD 331]

Tha mòr ionmhas do mhathais
Dhomh gach uair anns an latha cho réidh,
’S mi gun chunntas gun tomhas,
A ghabhail cuibhrinn fa chomhair gach tìm;
Mara cuimseach dhomh fhaighinn
Biadh is aodach gun chaitheamh thar fhéum,
Sin ’s gun storas a ghleidheadh—
A bheath’ dh’ òrduich thu roimhe dha d’ thréud.

Cha ’n ’eil la tha mi ’g éirigh,
Nach ’eil gathannan aoibhneis do ghraidh,
Air am measgadh le caoimhneas,
Ur gach maduinn is oidhche ’s gach trath;—
Drùchd do dhealt a ni saibhir
M’ anam airceil chum oighreachd nan gras,
Far an seinnear le d’ chloinn-sa
Laoidhean molaidh ’sior-chliuthachadh d’ ainm’.

Cha ’n ’eil oidhch’ tha mi ’laidhe,
Nach ’eil ainglean na Flathais ’a m’ chòir,
’S iad ’g am shireadh ’s ’g am ghleidheadh,
Bho na naimhdibh tha teth air mo thòir.
Na mo shuain, a chaomh-athair!
’S tu mo bhuachaill’ a ghleidheas mi beò,
’S a bheir suas mi gu d’ chathair,
An uair is rùn leat mo ghabhail gu d’ ghlòir.

Tha mo smuaintean ’s mo labhairt.
Air an cunntadh a d’ leabhar le còir,
’S bho ’n ’s ann uaith ni mi fhaighinn,
Togam suas iad le aighear ’s le ceol,
Chum do chluais, a Righ-Athair!
A rinn mo stiùradh ’s mo ghleidheadh ’s mi og,
’S riamh troimh chùrsa mo bheatha,
Sheall thu nuas orm ’g am fheitheamh le lòn.


[TD 332]

Mas na sheilbhich mi beatha,
’S tu-s’ a dhealbh mi le cnamhaibh ’s le feòil,
’S an t-seomar dhìomhair ’g am ghleidheadh,
Cunntas mhiosan a’ feitheamh tigh’nn beò;
’S an tìm iomchuidh ’s na labhair thu,
Chaidh an t-ionmhas sin anam thoirt dhomh-s’,
Le cord airgid ’g a cheangal,
A chum ’s nach salaichinn na h-eathraichean òir.

’S rinn thu teampull de ’n talamh,
Mar chéis gheal ibhri chum ’fhalach mar chleòc,
Na sùilean lìon thu le solus,
’S an anail dh’ ìnntrig thu ’m pollan na stròin’;
A chluas gu cluinntinn gach faruim,
’S a chas gu imeachd le cabhaig ’s an ròd,
’S an lamh gu gnìomh air aran,
An ceann gu rioghladh, ’s an teangaidh gu d’ ghloir.

Dh’ fhag thu t-iomlan do m’ bhallaibh
’S an ordugh b’ iomchuidh chum faireachduinn bheò,
’N uair dh’ fhuiligeas aon dhiubh le sgaradh,
Tha càch ri caoidh is ri gearan le bron;
Cha ’n ’eil cuibhle ’s an anam,
Nach do thionndaidh bho ’n ealaidh ’s bho ’n ceòl,
’S ma gheibh an lùdag bheag gearradh,
Tha ’chreubh bho ’n chrùn gus an talamh fo leòn.

Ach d’ oibribh diomhair is falaich,
Cha rannsaich cuimhne lag, thana, gun treòir,
Mar bhrùid mi a’ d’ fhianuis, no dallag
Nach faic, ’s nach cluinn, ’s nach fairich ach sgleò;
’S tric a dh’ iarr mi le mearachd
An ni le ’fhaotainn nach mealainn le còir,
Ach dhuit-s’ is léir mo chion-falaich,
’S tu bheir dhomh ’n oighreachd tha m’ anam a’ lorg.


[TD 333]

’S e bhi a’ lorg air do ghealladh,
A tha mi ’g iarraidh chum m’ anam bhi beò,
Mo chridhe lìonadh le d’ bheannachd,
’S do thoil a dheanamh gun aindeoin le m’ dheòin;
Ri m’ ùrnuigh tionndaidh cluas fhaireal,
’S na leig dhomh dùnadh le ath-iarrtas glòir,
Ach teachd a d’ ìonnsuidh mar leanabh
A dh’ fhaighinn sprùileach, ’s ’gan tionail mu d’ bhord.

’S mi mar dhéirceachan falamh,
Gun ni, gun fhéudail, gun earras, gun stòr,
’S mi ’n dùil gun éisd thu ri m’ ghearan,
’S do ghnuis le caoimhneas gu ’n dealraich thu orm.
Na leig dhomh tionndadh bho d’ leanail,
Ach dean mo stiuradh ’s mi aineolach dorch,
Le d’ ghràs ath-nuadhaich-sa m’ anam,
’S dean gradh is firinn a bhuileachadh orm.

’S tric a las thu mo choinnleir,
’S mi gun solus, gun soillse na m’ chòir,
Le do Spiorad tha saoibhir.
Chum mo sheachran fhoillseachadh dhomh-s’.
Sgrùdam d’ fhocal gach oidhche,
’Stiùras m’ astar mar ‘ghuide’ anns an ròd,
’S tionndaidheam dhachaidh bho m’ fhaontraidh
Dh’ ionnsuidh m’ athar tha saoibhir an glòir.

Air cliù do ghloir ni mi labhairt
’N uair bhios mo chnaimhean na ’n luidhe fo ’n fhòid,
Cho mìn ri fùdar gun d’ anail,
Le fuaim na trompaid grad léumaidh iad beò.
’S cha teid aon rudan dhiu ’m mearachd,
Ach bidh an t-iomlan ’cur thairis le feòil,
’S bidh a’ chruitheachd nuadh gu leir fallain,
Gun chnoimh, gun chréuchdan gun ghalar, gun leòn.


[TD 334]

Nach binn an sgeul so ri aithris
Do ’n dream a dh’ eireas le pailmean ’n an dòrn,
’S iad suaint’ an aodaichean geala,
’S an crùn a’ boisgeadh mar dhealradh an òir;
’S an gnùis mar ghréin na làn-sholuis.
An là geal céitein—’n uair a theannas i oirnn—
’S e ’s ainm dhaibh oighreachan geallaidh,
’S an cuirt an Righ gheibh iad cathraichean glòir.

’S e cliù na Trionaid an ealaidh
Le tùis dheadh-ìobairt ’s laoidh mholaidh na ’m beòil,
A chaoidh nan cian na ’n cloinn-sonais,
Le ’n “organ” bhinn is ciùin’, farasda ceòl;
Cha ’n fhàs iad sgìth no mi-thoileach,
Ach ’s aoibhneas iomlan is toradh dha ’n nòs,
Mar reultan timchioll na cathrach,
Is Grian na Firinn ’g an dealradh le glòir.


CLXXII.

Ceòl cha ’n àill leam, pìob no clarsach,
Binneas ghall-tromp ’s theud,
Cha bhinn le m’ chluais ’n uair ’s àird’ am fuaim,
Cha ’n imich luath mo cheum;
Air ùrlar àrd cha dean mi danns’,
’S cha ghluais mi eangaidh air sléibh’,
Tha cùrsa nàduir ’s cunntas làithean,
“Teagasg ceann mo réis’.

Mo laith’ mar cheò ’s mar fhaileas neòil,
Dh’ fhalbh thairis m’ òige nuadh,
’S i ’n oidhch’ ’tha ’n tòir orm, dh’ iompaich m’ “organ”
Chiùil gu bròn ’s gu gruaim;
Mo chridhe trom nach éirich leam,
Mar chloich air grunnd fo shuain,
Nach dùisg ’s nach gluais, ach tùirseach truagh,
Mar dhuin’ ’an cluas a’ bhàis.


[TD 335]

’S am bàs dh’ an toir sinn uile géill,
Gur sgaiteach geur a lann,
’S lìonmhor treun òg ’s maighdeann bheul-dearg,
’Chuir e ’an céis (1) le laimh;
Gach bean a’s céile ’s leanabh
’Sheilbhich beatha riamh bho Adh’mh,
Ach Enoch ’s Eliah, chaidh an treud ud
Uile ’n géill do ’n bhàs.

’S cha chùis-eagail bàs do ’n iarmaid
’Thig fo riaghladh gràis,
A chum a dh’ fheitheadh théid iad sgiamhach,
’S bàirleig sgriobht’ na ’n làimh,
Air beulaobh ’n Rìgh nach diùlt doibh
Inntreachduinn le mìle fàilt’,
Bho ’n phàidh an Sagart ac’ am fiachan,
’S thug E dìoladh làn.

’S ged dh fhag am peacadh sinn fo dhìteadh,
Cha bu sinne ’phàidh,
Ach làmh ar n-urrais, Rìgh na Sìothchaimh,
Dh’ ìobradh air a’ chrann;
Le ùmhlachd ’s fulangas ro phiantail,
Chrom E sìos gu làr,
A’s ghlaodh E mach “Mo Dhia, mo Dhia,
Na tréig mi chaoidh ’s na fàg.”

Bho ’nàimhdibh guineach dh’ fhuiling Iosa
Peanas, pian, a’s cràdh,
Air tàirngibh chroch iad Corp na Fìrinn
Ris a’ chraoibh gu h-àrd’,
B’ iad sìol an uilc ’thug mionnan dìtidh
’N aghaidh ’n Tì a’s àird’:
’S a gheall gu ’n gabh’dh iad ’fhuile phrìseil
Dìreach air an ceann.<eng>


(1) Corpses were formerly enclosed in wicker-work coffins. Often they were merely laid in long withs bound round.


[TD 336]

<gai>A’ ghrian le teas do theich air cùl,
’S a solus dhiùlt i dhoibh,
Na creagan sgoilt gu ’n ruig an grunnd,
’S an teampull réub gu làr;
An talamh chrath le ’thoradh trom,
’S na dùilean shruth le cràdh,
’S na mairbh bho ’n uaigh do dh’ éirich suas,
’Thoirt coinneamh ’dh’ Uan nan Gràs.

O m’ anam, dùisg le d’ chlàrsaich chiùil,
’S dean moladh, ’s cliù a sheinn,
Do Thriath nam feart le ’ghàirdean deas
’Thug buaidh a mach dha threud;
’S le ’chòmhraig thréin ’thug ’arm bho ’n eug,
’S an treas là ’dh’ éirich suas,
’S a shuidh an àird’ air ionad àrd,
Aig deas-laimh Rìgh nan sluagh.

’S E ’deanamh eadar-ghuidhe bhuan
Air son A shluaigh gu léir,
An Cìobair gràidh nach leig air chall
An t-uan a’s tàir’ dhe ’n treud;
Ard-shagart ungta, Rìgh gach prionnsa,
Bheir gach dùil’ d’ A géill,
’S le ’éifeachd éirigh ’chruitheachd nuadh—
’S E ’s breitheamh dhuinn ’s is léigh.

’N uair ’thig E nuas le ainglibh cùirt’,
Mar dhealan dlùth nan speur,
Ni ’n trombaid fuaim, ’s bheir sìos a’s suas,
A’s deas a’s tuath dhi géill;
Grad-éirigh suas na bheil ’s a’ chuan,
’S a’ chill, ’s an uaigh, ’n na sléibht,
A dh’ ionnsuidh ’mhòid ’s bidh ’choinneamh dòmhail
’Thig an còir an t-slèibh.


[TD 337]

’N sin labhraidh ’m breitheamh ris na h-oighibh
Glic, dha ’òrdugh ’ghéill:—
“A shluaigh ’tha beannaicht’ teannaibh chum
Mo dheis, bho ’n ’s eòl dhomh sibh,
’S ’an rìoghachd m’ Athar, gabhaibh còmhnuidh,
’S déanaibh ceòl a sheinn,
’S bho chraoibh na beatha faighibh sòlas,
’S mairibh beò gach linn.”

Ach dha na h-òighibh a bha gòrach,
Bheir E ’n t-òrdugh truagh:—
“A chlann na mallachd nach d’ iarr m’ eòlas,
Bidh nur còmhnuidh bhuan
’S an lochan loisgeach mar ri deamhnaibh,
’Caoidh ’s a bròn ’s a’ gruaim,
A’ snàmh a’ chuain gun ghrunnd, gun <eng>‘shore,’<gai>
Gun phort, gun <eng>‘shoal’<gai> gun bhruaich.”

’S e àithn’ a bheirinn dha gach beò,
Geur-aire ’thoirt do m’ dhuan,
Tha ’chùis so eagalach ri leògh’,
Is sgreamhaidh dhomhs’ a fuaim;
O m’ anam, teich mu ’m beir an tòir ort,
’S taisg do stòras shuas,
’S bidh d’ ùrnuigh freagarrach dha d’ ghlòir,
’S cha ’n fhaic thu bròn a chaoidh.

Tha rùintean freasdail deas an còmhnuidh
’Thoirt dhut eòlas nuadh’,
Na ’m b’ àill leat freagairt le do dheòin,
’S gach leth-trom ’dh’ fhògradh bhuat;
Cuir cùl ri easaontas ’s ri pròis,
’S le seirc a’s tròcair gluais,
’S gach cùis dean eadraiginn ’s a’ chòir,
’S luchd-brìb’ cuir brònach bhuat.

[TD 338]

’S le gràs a’s seirce leasaich d’ eolas,
’S anns gach mòr-chéill gluais,
Mar àirmhear leat gach oidhche ’s lò,
Do shlighe seòl ’s gach uair;
Le treud an t-seacharain na deònaich,
’S na gabh déidh na ’n duais,
Chum bàis tha ’n casan luath gu leòir
’S cha ’n fhaic iad glòir an Uain.

Mar dh’ àicheadh iad a theis’nas òg,
’S a reachd gach lò gu ’n d’ thruaill,
Air gràdh a theach cha ’n fhaigh iad còir,
’S cha bhlais am beòil dhe ’chuilm;
Bidh ’chòmhnuidh ac’ ’an teach a’ bhròin,
’S bidh ’n leab’ ’an dòruinn bhuain,
’S air cràidh an acain cha ’n ’eil beò
Na bheir bun sgeòil a nuas.


CLXXIII.

Och ’us ochan! mo threachladh!
Mo léir-chreach! mar a tha mi,
’Dhìobhail lòin, agus earraidh,
Do ’n anam nach bàsaich;
Mi ’an dòruinn fo chùmha,
’S neo-shubhach a ta mi,
Air tulaich am aonar,
’S luchd mo ghaoil an déigh m’ fhàgail.

Ciod mu ’m biodh tu cho cianail,
Aig iargain mu ’d chàirdean?
’S do bhàrnaigean lionmhor,
Gu triall air an sàilibh;
Ged tha iadsan air thoiseach,
’S tus’ a’ d’ bhochdan ’s an fhàsach;
Ann an ath-ghiorras tìoma,
Bithidh tu cinnteach dheth fhàgail.


[TD 339]

Ach ’s mòr m’ fhàth air bhi cianail,
Bharr air iargain mo chàirdean;
Mo ghineadh ’an truaill’eachd,
’S mo ghluasad bho ’n tràth sin;
Mo chiontana lìonmhor,
Mo ghiomh agus m’ fhàilling;
Ann an cunnart mo dhìteadh
Mar dhìleabach Adhaimh.

Ged bha ’n dìleab ud cronail,
Thàinig sonas ’na h-àite;
Tha do bhràthair a’s sine
’G ad shireadh gu fhàbhair;
Gu róbacha, (1) rìomhach,
’S crùn rìoghail nach fàilling;
Mar ri còir air an oighreachd,
A dhaingnich A’ bhàs dhuit.

Ach ’s e aobhar mo thioma,
Tric is minig ’s mi ’m aonar;
Mo chridhe do-lùbtadh,
Ruith dlùth a chum daorsainn;
Tha ’n seann duin’ cho làidir,
’S nach tàir mi dheth aomadh;
Thig sruth salach o ’n fhuaran
’Feadh ’s tha thruaill’eachd gun taomadh.

Ach ’s e impidh do Bhràthar
Dhuits’ gach là bhi ’ga leanailt;
’S an uair ’bhios ’n eallach ’g ad shàrach’,
Gramaich làidir ri ’ghealladh;
Tog a chuing air do ghualaibh,
’S bi’dh do bhuannachd ris soilleir:
Cha ’n éir i ri ’giùlan,
’S bheir i lùths dhuit a’s fradharc.<eng>


(1) Eng. robe.


[TD 340]

<gai>Meud do shonais an tràth sin
Cha tàir mi ’ga shloinneadh;
Bi’dh d’ iodhal-aoraidh a’s d’ ardan
Mar bha Dagon na bhloidhibh;
Do pheacadh-leannan an tràth sin,
Ni thu ’fhàgail ad dhéighidh;
’S bi’dh tu ’g imeachd ’s an fhàsach
Mar bha ’m bà-chrodh o ’n laoghaibh.

Na h-anamianna gràineil,
Do ’m bu ghnàth leat ’bhi ’géilleadh;
Sgiùrsaidh Es’ iad as ’aros,
Mar armailt’ a reubail;
Uile thruaill’eachd do naduir,
’S aobhar nàire leat fhéin iad;
’S an uair thig gràs gu bhi riaghladh
Théid an strìochdadh le chéile.

Ged tha thusa gun ghluasad,
’S do chluasan gun chlàisdeachd;
Tha do chobhair a’s d’ fhuasgladh,
Air gualaibh do Shlànuighir;
Cha ’n ’eil do smachd ach ré tìoma,
Théid gu finid ’s an fhàsach;
’S ’n uair ’théid thu null thairis.
Bi’dh tu fallain ’na fhàbhair.

’S e gràdh an Athar do-rannsuicht’,
A thionnsgainn an t-iochd ud;
Gach ni gheall e bho shiorruidheachd
Làn-chriochnaich a Mhac e;
Dh’ fhag e spiorad na siochaint’,
A toirt fianuis le ’fhocal;
Mor-bhuannachd na dìlib,
Na gabh sgìos bhi ’cur beachd oirr’.


[TD 341]

Bha tri Pearsa na Trionaid,
Co dian a’s do leth-sa,
Chaidh ’n cùmhnant o shiorruidheachd,
A dheanamh co seasmhach;
Tha ’n lagh air a riarach’,
’S làn-dioladh aig ceartas;
Tha a thròcair-sa glòraicht’,
’S aobhar dòchais aig peacaich.

’S ann o innleachd an nàmhaid,
A thàinig am peacadh;
Bàs siorruidh, a’s truaighe,
An gin truaillidh ’bha ac’-san;
Grad-ghramaich ri Criosda,
Ma ’s miann leat an seachnadh,
Tha air thairgse cho saor
Do chlann daoine ’na fhocal.

Ann am briathraibh a Shoisgeil
’Tha cho maiseach an òrdugh;
Gach neach ’gam bheil tlachd annt’
’Tarruing faisg orr’ an còmhnuidh;
Le gràdh a’s fior aidmheil,
’Cur an taic annt’ an comhnuidh;
’S ag imeachd ’na neart-sa,
Fo a bhratach le dòchas.

Ma bhios tusa gun sàbh’ladh,
Chaidh d’ fhàgail gun leithsgeul;
Tha stoc aig do Ràthan,
A ghnàth ort a’ freasdal;
Tha e comasach, deònach,
Anns gach dòigh ’tha mar cheisd ort;
’S bheir e earradh a’s biadh dhuit,
Nach criochnaich am feasda.


[TD 342]

CLXXIV.

M’ anam, imich thusa sàmhach,
Fo gach àmhghar agus leatrom;
’S e do thruaill’eachd a thaobh nàduir
Aobhar d’ ànraidh mar mo bheachd-sa.
Greas a’s amhairc mar a tha thu,
Seall le nàire ri do chleachdadh;
’S faic an bac tha air do ghuaillibh,
Le do ghluasad ’bhi gun fhaicill.

O ’n a rugadh ann ad thràill thu,
Thaobh do phàirtidh ’s a cheud seachran;
Iomchair foighidneach gach dòruinn,
’S biodh do bhròn air son do pheacaidh.
Tha do thoil an deis a truailleadh,
Rag ri gluasad chum do leas-sa;
Dh’ easbhuidh cumhachd a bheir buaidh oirr’,
Gheibh thu ’m bàs a’s duais do ’n pheacadh.

Seall a nise ciod a ni thu,
’S teich le dìchioll dh’ ionnsuidh taice,
Fàg do chudthrom air do Ràthan
Tha E ’ghnàth cho math ri ’fhocal.
Thig le irioslachd a’s dòchas
Dh’ iarraidh còmhnadh o ’n Aon bheartach,
Creid air tùs gu bheil e maoineach,
’S iarr do dhaonnachd réir a’ phailteis.

Thig le d’ dhoille, ciont a’s daorsa,
Fàg ’na aonar airsan ’n leatrom,
Dh’ iarraidh teagaisg, riaghlaidh ’s saoraidh
Tha iad annsan ri ’n toirt seachad.
Seall le muinghinn an àirde
Chum nam beann d’ a bheil do thaitneachd;
’N uair is trioblaidich’ a’ chual duit
Amhairc suas ri Triath nam feartan.


[TD 343]

Càraich d’ eallach air a ghuaillibh,
Oir ’s ann uaithe thig do neart-sa;
’S ged nach beachdaich thus’ a ghluasad,
Creid gu luath gu bheil E ’m faisg ort.
Feith gu foighidneach ri ’thìom-san,
’S imich dìreach réir a reachda;
Ruith do reis le fair’ a’s dìchioll.
’S ann le strì a ni thu ’streapadh.

’N uair ’bhios fiaradh ann ad chrannchur,
Creid gu ’n tionndaidh e gu d’ thaitneachd;
Bheir seillein math o lusaibh searbha
Mil ’bhios tarbhach, brioghar, blasda.
Ged bhiodh am Freasdal dhuit air uairibh,
Tuille ’s cruaidhe réir do bheachd-sa;
Tuig gur gliocas thug mu ’n cuairt e,
’S gheibh thu beannachd as am pailteas.

Bi thusa furachar mu ’aitheantan;
O staid nàduir teich ’na thaic-sa;
’S glac a ghealladh làn do shìochaint,
Ann an Criosd a dhiol a’ cheartas.
Air do thurus do Chanàan,
Ged robh am fàsach làn do chroisibh,
’S iomadh bruthadh air do shàiltibh,
Leans’ a’ ghnàth ri lorg a’ Ghaisgich.

Thug E buaidh os cionn do nàimhdibh
’S bheir E gràs an àm na h-airce,
Ruith d’ a ionnsuidh le féin-aicheadh
’S dearbh nach fàilnich do Chùl-taice.


CLXXV.

’S mile marbhphaisg ort, a shaoghail,
’S carach baoghalach do chleachdadh,
’S gar nach ’eil mi sean no aosmhor,
’S lionar caochladh tha mi ’faicinn;


[TD 344]

’S tric am bàs le ’shaighdidh dùbhlanach
A’ tionndadh mùirn gu airteal,
’S a’ toirt aoibhneis mhòir gu bròn,
’N uair bhios ar sùil ri sòlas fhaicinn.

’S tha gach là a’ teagasg iùil dhuinn
Chum ar cùp a ghiulan faic’lleach,
Ma ’s e ’s gu faigh sibh làine chuimseach,
’S cuibhrionn iomchuidh e gu ’r n-astar;
’M fad ’s a bhios sinn anns an fhàsach,
Gheibh sinn aran ’s pàirt ri ’sheachnadh,
’S c’uim’ am biodh ar gearan uaibhreach
Bho nach lìon e suas ar beairteas.

Gar na ghlac mi mòran stòrais,
Cha do chrìon mo chòir gu airceas,
An t-aran lathail fhuair mi ’n còmhnuidh,
’S math gu leòir gun stòr ’chur seachad;
An ti rinn taodhal mòr ’s an fhàsach,
Cha do thárr e maoin a thasgaidh,
’S feàrr am beagan buain le gràs,
Na oighreachd ’s achanna’ chaich ’thoirt dhachaidh.

’S gàbhaidh ’bhuaidh a th’ air cloinn dhaoin’,
A h-uile h-aon air saod a’ bheairtais,
’M fad ’s am fagus ’falbh g’ a fhaotainn,
’S cogadh ’s caonnag ga thoirt dhachaidh;
’S lionar neach tha ’cosd a shaothrach,
Nach do bhlais a mhaoin le taitneas,
’S mairg a ghlacas creach nam feumnach,
Chum e féin a dhèanamh beairteach.

An tì a thaisgeas sìol na truaill’eachd,
Cha bhi ’stòras buan gu mairsinn,
Ged a dhùin e glaiste suas e,
Gheibh e sgiathan luath chum astair:


[TD 345]

Mar an iolair ’shiùbhlas bhuainn,
Chum nan nèamh le fuaim ’s le clapraich,
’S amhlaidh beairteas thig le foill,
Ge mòr a shraighlich, ’s faoin a mhairsinn.

’S tric tha ’m beairteas ’n a chùis-dhitidh,
Dha na mìltean ’tha ga ghlacadh,
’Càrnadh suas le cruadh’s droch-innleachd,
Cuid nan dìlleachdan gun taice:
Bi’dh a’ bhanntrach dhòibh fo chìs,
’S tric a dhìobair i ’n t-each-toisich,
’S cruaidh an cridh’ a bh’ aig an linn
A dh’ orduich lagh cho mìllteach crosda.

Chuir iad cas air reachd na fìrinn,
’S ghluais iad dìchiollach ’s an droch-bheart,
’Claoidh nam bochd ’s ga ’n lot le mìorun—
Banntraich ’s dìlleachdain gun choiseachd—
B’ uamhasach an cleachdadh tìre,
Croich a’s binn air àird gach cnocàin, (1)
Cùirt nan spleadh gun lagh, gun fhirinn,
’S tric a dhìt’ an tì ’bha neo-chiont’.

’N uair ’bhios gràs ann an luchd-rìaghlaidh,
Bi’dh na h-ìochdarain làn aiteis,
’S bi’dh gach prionnsa, ’s diuc, a’s iarla,
’Seasamh na còir’ fo sgiath a’ cheartais;
Cha bhi duine bochd gun phòrsan,
’S cha bhi deòiridh truadh gun taice,
’S bi’dh gach cealgair air am fògradh,
’S cha ’n fhaigh luchd-an-fhòirneirt fasgadh.

An sin bi’dh sonas anns gach rìoghachd,
’S cùirt gach rìgh mar fhìonan taitneach,
Torach, làn le gràdh, ’s le fìrinn,
’S bheir gach sluagh deagh ìobairt seachad;<eng>


(1) Our authoress had witnessed the cruelties perpetrated after Culloden.


[TD 346]

<gai>Tionnda’idh ’n t-Arabach ’s an t-Inns’nach,
Fa thrombaid bhinn an t-soisgeil
’S cumaidh ’m Pàp’ na h-àithtean dìreach,
’S cha bhi ìomhaigh ann no croisean.

Ach bi’dh ’n soisgeul air a leughadh,
Anns a’ bheus an robh e ’n toiseach,
’S bidh ’n luchd-teagaisg làn de dh’ éifeachd,
’Toirt an léursainn do na bochdaibh;
’S binn am fuaim ’s gach cluais ’bhi ’g éisdeachd
Ait-sgeul aoibhinn cléir nan abstol,
Anns ’n do shuidhe iad cruinn gu léir,
Le Spiorad Dhé ’toirt géill dha ’fhocal.

’S iad ’am bannaibh gràidh dha chéile,
Comunn spéiseil an deagh-choltais,
Rùnach, seirceil, làn deagh-bheusan—
Buidheann réidh nach géill do ’n drochbheart:
’S lionar uireasbhach a’s feumnach,
Dha na ghléidh iad léigh gun chosdas,
Thaom gach duin’ a chuid ’s an déirce,
Chum an tréud a dhìon bho ’n bhochdainn.

’S thusa’ ’dhuine, cluinn a’s léugh so,
’S cuimhnich fhéin ’bhi céum air thoiseach,
’S thu cho pailt de stòr ’s de dh’ fhéudail,
’S ‘Banc’ gu d’ ghéill, ’s còig céud air ocar;
A mhéud ’s ged thionail thu ri chéile,
Do mhac gun chéill ’s do oighre cosdail,
B’ fheàrr dhut beannachd bho luchd-déirce,
Na na dh’ fhàg thu ’d dhéigh gu droch bhuil.

’S bho ’na shiùbhlas sinn gu léir
Do ’n chill bho ’n d’ éirich sinn an toiseach,
Anns an uaigh ’s nach luaidh sinn feudail,
’S nach bi feum againn air cosdas;


[TD 347]

’S faoin gach fasan a’s deagh éididh
’S tan’ an léin’ ’an téid an corp-sa,
’S ni na daola cuilm de ’n chreubhaig,
’M fad ’s a mhaireas réud gun chosd dhi.

An sin gach duine chuir ’san éucoir,
Buainidh iad le déuraibh goirte,
’S bi’dh an duais gu truagh mar thoill iad,
’S àrd a chluinnear caoidh an ochan;
Bi’dh an lochd ’n a chrois ’s gach éudann,
’S an cogais réubach fhéin ga ’n lotadh,
Sgiùrsar iad gu slochd na péine,
’S corruich Dhé mar leus ga ’n losgadh.

Ach na fìrinnich gu aoibhneas,
Crùn, a’s oighreachd gheibh gach neach dhiubh,
’S còmhnuidh ait’ an teach na soillse—
’Sona, soim’ ’bhios cloinn na maise,
’Cliùthachadh Ur-mhac na Maighdinn,
’Choisinn saibhreas dhoibh le ’ghaisgeachd,
’S a thug buaidh bho ’n uaigh le ’threun-laimh,
’S geat’ an éig le ’ghàirdean spealg E.

’S chaidh E suas le buaidh-ghàir aoibhneis,
’Dh’ ullachadh dha ’chloinn an dachaidh,
’S thug E àithntean d’ a luchd-muinntir,
’Uain ’s a chaoraich ’stiùradh faic’lleach;
’S ’n uair a thig E rìsd ’n a mhòrachd,
’Thoirt am pòrsan do gach neach dhiubh,
An seirbhiseach rinn ceilg a’s fòirneart,
Sgiùrsar e le còrdaibh goirte.


CLXXVI.

Tha m’ inntinn-s’ an geall
A bhi thall thar uisg’ Iordain,
Mar ri Prionnsa na sìochaint’,
B’ e mo mhiann dol ’na chòmhdhail;


[TD 348]

’S e cìbeir na treud e
Bheir e féin orra faicill;
As na h-eileanan cuainteach,
Ni e ’n cuairteachadh dhachaidh.

’S e an Ròs e o Sharon,
’S am Flùr e o Iesse,
’S e Gaisgeach Tréibh Iùdah,
Cha chlaoidhear a neart-sa;
’S e àillteachd thar chàch,
Thug mo gràdh-sa cho mòr dha,
’S an uair ’bhios e as m’ fhianuis,
Bi’dh mi cianail, ro-bhrònach.

Bi’dh mi dubhach ’ga iarraidh,
Os n-ìosal an còmhnuidh;
’S ’n uair ’chì mi na mhais’ e
Bi’dh mi laiste le sòlas;
’S e m’ àilleagan broillich,
’S e mo charaid ’s m’ fhear-pòsd’ e;
’S e mo Bhràthair a’s sine
Tric is minig ’gam chòmhnadh.

’S e fear ghabhail mo leithsgeil
’S a’ sheasamh mo chòrach;
A phàigheas m’ uil’ fhiachan,
’S ni mo dhion bho gach dòruinn;
Am fad ’s a bhios mi air thurus,
Bheir e ’n cumantas lòn dhomh,
’S ’n uair a philleas mi dhachaidh,
Cha bhi airc aig a bhòrd-sa.

Tha mil a’s bainne ’an Canaan,
Ged tha ’n fhàsach-s’ làn croisead;
’S iomadh bruthadh air sàilibh
’N neach a’s fèarr gheibh an t-aisig;


[TD 349]

Bha a smachdan, ’s a throcair,
O m’ òige mu seadh orm;
’S e bu chàinnt dhoibh le chéile,
Mi a thréigsinn a pheacaidh.

’S iad clann dileas a’ chùmhnaint
’S géire sgiùrsas a shlat-sa;
Ach cha dealaich e ’chaoimhneas,
A chaoidh riu réir ’fhocail;
’S e trioblaid na fùirneis,
’S a bheil e rùsgadh an seachrain;
Gus an iarr iad dheth thròcair,
Gun leònadh dha cheartas.

Chum ’s gu faic iad an truaigh’
’S an gluasad gun fhaicill;
Thig an lagh ’gan dian-ruagadh,
As gach bruach an robh ’m fasgadh;
’N uair an ni ’choguis dùsgadh,
Le sgrùdadh géur-bheachdail,
Ni i mach dhoibh bhi caillte
Mur tionndaidh iad dhachaidh.

’N uair ’bha mi a ’m reubal
’S e féin a rinn iochd orm;
’S rinn mo philleadh le tròcair
Bho shligh’ dhóruinn ’n léir-sgriosaidh.
Mar amhailt’ á grìosaich,
A spìon e mi thairis
Bhàrr chriochan an namhaid,
Gu fàrdach a’ chlanna.

Tha cùibhleachan ùine,
Gu dlùth a’ dol seachad;
Dean mo sgeudachadh sgiamhach
’An aodach iasaid a’ ghaisgich;


[TD 350]

Anns am faigh mi a bheannachd,
A cheannaich e daor dhomh;
Cha b’ ann le ni truaillidh,
Ach ’fhuill uasal ’ga taomadh.

Dh’ ath-nuadhaich e ’chùmhnant,
A’s dhùbail e ’ghealladh;
’S e Caiptean mo shlaint’ e,
’Bheir le gràs mi ’na choinneamh;
Tha gach latha mar bhliadhna,
Gus an criochnaich mi m’ astar;
Gus am bi mi ’na fhianuis,
Troimh shiorruidheachd ’cur beachd air.

Rinn Simeon sòlas ’n uair
Fhuair e òg e ’na ghlacaibh;
A’s le irioslachd, dh’ iarr e,
Comas triall ’sa dhol dachaidh;
As a b’ fhad bha mi ’g earbsa,
Tha m’ shùil dearbhta ’g a fhaicinn—
Slàinte Dhé do chloinn daoine,
Chaidh fada thaobh uaith’ air seach’ran.


CLXXVII.

EIRIDH MI, AGUS THEID MI DH’ IONNSUIDH M’ ATHAR.

“Iomrall gun cheill dh’ fhàg fo eis mi air m’ aineol,
Mealltaireachd bhreig rinn mo leireadh cho luath;
B’ fhad leam an ùin ann an cùirtibh nam beannachd,
’S threig mi m’ uil’ shuaimhneas, a bhuannachadh truaigh.

“’N aros na sìth’ is na fialaidheachd fharsuinn,
Easbhuidh no miothlachd cha d’ fhiosraicheadh riamh;
’S liuthad fear-muinntir fo thuarasdal m’ athar,
’N diugh tha gu muirneach mu bhuird aig am biadh.


[TD 351]

“’S mise air fuadan, ro uaigneach, gun dachaidh,
’Folach feadh chùiltean, ’s mi rùisgte, gun ni;
Truaillte le peacadh, gun neach thig am charabh,
’Dh’ eisdeachd mo ghearain,—le m’ aimideas fhin.

“’S cuimhn’ leam mar bha anns na laithean chaidh tharais,
’S cuimhn’ leam an gradh a rinn m’ arach ’s mi òg;
B’ uallach mo cheum—’ruith ’s a leum—mu na bhaile;
Nis, tha mi ’n céin, ’n am dhiol-deirce ri bron.

“Thainig am peacadh le ’thairgseachan meilis,
Rinn mi dù-cheannairc—gu ’n deach mi ’n a dheigh;
Boidhchead nam blà air feadh mhachraichean eile,
Dh’ aindeoin gach rabhaidh, ’g am thàladh bho fheum.

“Trom thar gach tàmailt bu ghràineil a dh’ fhairich—
Cruaidh seach gach sàruch’ tha ’n dràsda ’g am chlaoidh—
Cuimhne na h-aingeachd chuir aimhleas air m’ athair,
’Ruig air a bhlath-chridh,—’s nach fhaic mi e ’chaoidh.

“’Tuille cha sheall mi air caoimhneas na h-aghaidh,
’Lasadh le bàigheachd air cloinne a ghaoil;
Tuille cha shìnear—ged ’s sgìth—far na laigh mi,
’N leabaidh bu ghile—gun trioblaid ’s an t-saogh’l.

“B’ fhearr leam mu ’n eug mi,—Seadh, eiridh mi fhathasd
Dhachaidh gun téid mi—’s cha ’n fheumar bhi mall;
’Mathanas! mathanas! asluichidh m’ anam;
’Athair nan gràs! dean ruim fabhar, ma ’s àill.


[TD 352]

“O, seach gu ’n d’ fhuair mi ’dhol dlù air an dorus,
Fios chuir d’ a ionnsuidh—’s mi cumail fad thall;
Gheibhinn, tre ’throcair, mo bheò-shlaint’ an oisinn,—
Saoileam nach ordaich’ e m’ fhogradh air falbh.”

Dh’ éirich an t-òglach—na deòir bhi ’g a dhalladh—
Ghreas e gu deòineach, le dòchas mar shoills’;
Astar bho ’n àros, ’g a fhailteach chaidh ’athair,
Ghlac Se ’na lamh’ e is ghabh ris mar oighr’.<eng>

T. S.


CLXXVIII.

Donald Cattanach, whose memory is yet green in Badenoch, and in many a Highland valley besides, died at Newtonmore in 1891, when about four score years of age. A master slater to trade, he lived and died in a neighbourhood where the sept of the Clan Chattan to which his family belonged, seem to have resided from a remote period.

Possessed of strong natural parts and much clearness of judgment, combined with devout piety, he was at a comparatively early age recognised as one of “the Men,” among whom he became inferior to none in point of ability and influence. Besides a minute knowledge of the Scriptures, he had no mean grasp of Systematic Theology; while his discourses—often characterised by a quaint humour, attended with flashes of wit—were greatly esteemed by the most thoughtful class of hearers.

He composed verses bearing upon his favourite themes, I believe mainly in order to occupy his mind and beguile the way in the course of the long solitary journeys by day and night, over lonely moors and through savage mountain passes, which he often undertook in connection with the pious


[TD 353]

duties to which he willingly gave of his time and strength. So little did he himself value his hymns, that they were actually taken down and printed without his consent.

In the following fragment he sings of the expiatory sacrifice of the Atonement:—

<gai>Thubhairt Maois ris na h-aithrichean
Gu ’n rachadh fàidh thogail doibh
Dhe ’m bràithrean féin a theagaisgeadh
Le cumhachd focal De;
Do Dhaibhidh thug e toileachas,
’S b’ e cainnt a làithean deireannach,
Gu ’m biodh a mhac ’s a Thighearna
Gu bràch ’n a Righ ’n a àit.

’S e ’n Fhìrinn is a’ Bheatha E,
’S e ’m Fàradh chum an Athar E—
A bhonn air an talamh so,
’S a bhàrr dol gu neamh.
Chaidh E troimh an t-saoghal so
’N a dhuine bhròn is dhuilgheasan,
A fulang bho na buairidhean
Chum fuasgladh air a chloinn.

B’e ’bhiadh ’s a dheoch bhi dianamh
Deadh thoil an Tì chuir uaith e,
An obair sin a chrìochnachadh,
Bha sgriobht’ ’s an Rolla Naomh.
B’e sin an ro-mhìorbhuileach
Thug Dà an cupan uamhasach,
’N Getsemane chuir uamh-chrith,
’S ’n A anam cruaidh-ghleachd mór.

Bha ceartas ’g iarruidh dìoladh Air,
Bha ’m bas ag iadhadh timchioll Air,
An lagh toirt neart gu pianadh Dhà—
’S e ’m peacadh gath a’ bhàis;


[TD 354]

Bha ’n gath ud giar is pìantachail,
’S cho fada ris an t-sìorruidheachd,
Ach choinnich Dia neo-chrìochnach e—
Chuir Crìosd as do ’n bhàs.

Sliabh Chalbhari do dhìrich E,
Air crann-ceusaidh Shìneadh E,
An lagh is ceartas riaraich E,
’S le ’bhàs chuir as do ’n bhàs.
’S mar dhearbhadh air gu ’n d’ rinn E sin,
An ceann tri làithean ’s oidhcheachan
Do dh’ fhuasgail Dia a cheanglaichean,
’S dh’ éirich E bho ’n bhàs.<eng>


CLXXIX.

Here we have the first verse and the concluding portion of a hymn called <gai>“An Dùthaich is Feàrr,”<eng> i.e., “The Better Country.” Always mindful that he was a sojourner in the wilderness of life, the author’s thoughts went out longingly to the Promised Rest beyond.

<gai>Tha an Dùthaich is Feàrr
Air taobh thall a bhàis,—
An dùthaich neamhaidh.
Mar tha ’n fhirinn ag ràdh;
A gheall Dia do Abraham
Le cumhnant gràis,
Gu ’m biodh a shliochd ’g a àiteach’
Mar oighreachd gu bràch.

Tha pobull Dia ’s an fhasaich
Mar bhuidheann dà fheachd,
Tha gràs agus nàdur
’N an anmaibh ri gleachd;

[TD 355]

Mar Iacob agus Esau
’N Rebecca bho shean,
Ach an caith Dia le ’ghràs
Annta nàdur a mach.

Ri àm cuir dhiùbh a’ phailliuin—
Tigh talmhaidh a’ chuirp,
Tuitidh corp a bhàis diùbh
’S cha ’n éirich e am feasd;
Théid iad a ’s tigh gu Pàrras,’
Is gheibh an anmaibh fois;
Bidh cliù an Uain chaidh mharbhadh
’N a cheol dhoibh am feasd.

B’ e fhìreantachd a chomhdaich iad,
’S thug còir dhoibh dol a ’s teach;
’S e ’ghliocas a rinn ciallach iad,
’S a thog an roghainn mhaith;
’S e ’naomhachd a rinn sgiamhach iad
’N an anmaibh an taobh ’s tigh;
’S an glòir a’ ghràis troimh shìorruidheachd
Bidh ’n cridhe snamh gun sgur.

Do chraobh na beatha ichidh iad,
Air sràidean Cathair Dhé,
Leis an lànachd sin do thoraidhean
A shruth a mach bho ’n rùn;
Na geugan sìorruidh sìubhlaidh iad,
’S an crìoch cha ’n fhaic a chaoidh;
Bidh toradh ùr troimh ’n t-sìorruidheachd
A ghnàth air bord nan naomh.

Na b’ àill le Dia chomh-phàrtachadh
De maitheas mòr a’ ghaoil,
Do thoilich E an lànachd sin
Bhi chomhnuidh ann an Crìosd;


[TD 356]

A chum bhi ’g a phàrtachadh
Reir toil an Spioraid Naomh’,
Gu sìorruidh ris an àireamh sin
A ghràdhaich Triuir an Aon.

Bidh ’n acras uile riaruichte,
’S miann an gaoil am feasd,
Bidh ’n cogadh uile crìochnuichte,
’S gach pian bha ’n a chois.
Bidh ’n t-Uan ’n a sholus sìorruidh dhoibh,
Cha laidh a’ ghrian am feasd,
Bidh ’m baile naomh ’n a dhachaidh dhoibh,
’S bu mhath bhi ’n am measg.

’N A thròcair mòr gu ’m faighinnse
An creideamh fhuair na naoimh,
An dòchas nach gabh carachadh—
Da ’m barrant facal Dé;
An gràdh a shiùbhladh dhachaidh leam
Air ceumannan na treud,
Ach am faigh mi seilbh ’n a gheallaidhean,—
’S an cliù gu ’n robh Dha féin.

’S gu ’n sealladh E ’n A fhabhair
Air an àireamh bhochd tha sgìth,
Dha nach freagair ainm ach Mara,
Thaobh riaghladh freasdail Dé;
Gu ’n gléidh E iad bho nàdur,
Aig uisgeachan na strì;
’S gu ’n toir E dhachaidh sàbhailt iad,
’S an cliù bidh n crùn an Righ.


[TD 357]

<eng>THE POETRY OF BADENOCH.

TRANSLATIONS.<gai>


[TD 358]

[Bàn]


[TD 359-561]

[Beurla]


[TD 562]

[Bàn]


[TD 563-567]

<eng>INDEX TO THE FIRST LINES<gai>


[TD 568]

[Bàn]


[TD 569-576]

<eng>INDEX TO PERSONS AND PLACES.<gai>


