[DA 1]

<eng>A
COLLECTION
OF
GAELIC PROVERBS,
AND
FAMILIAR PHRASES;
Accompanied with
AN ENGLISH TRANSLATION,
Intended to facilitate the Study of the LANGUAGE;
ILLUSTRATED WITH NOTES.

TO WHICH IS ADDED,
THE WAY TO WEALTH,
BY DR. FRANKLIN,
TRANSLATED INTO GAELIC.

BY DONALD MACINTOSH.

<gai>Ge d’ dh’ èignichear an sean-fhocal, cha bhreugaichear e.<eng>

EDINBURGH:
Printed for the AUTHOR, and sold by Messrs. DONALDSON, CREECH, ELLIOT, and SIBBALD, Booksellers, Edinburgh; JOHN GILLIES, Perth; JAMES GILLIES, Glasgow, and by all the Booksellers in Town and Country.

M,DCC,LXXXV.


[DA 2]

[Blank]


[DA 3]

ERRATA.—In some copies of the impression, page 11. proverb 55. “<gai>Bithidh ’n luaireagan luadha na ualachan gille,”<eng> is wanting on the Gaelic side, and twice repeated in some other copies.


[DA 4]

[Blank]


[DA 5]

TO
THE RIGHT HONOURABLE
DAVID EARL OF BUCHAN,
LORD CARDROSS, FOUNDER AND PRESIDENT OF THE SOCIETY OF SCOTS ANTIQUARIES, &c.

MY LORD,

THE Monarch whose wisdom was divinely inspired, gives us a distinguished mark by which we may know those who are so happy as to be possessed of that valuable treasure. “The WISE will hear and increase learning; and a man of understanding shall attain unto wise counsels: to understand a PROVERB, and the interpretation; the words of the WISE, and their dark sayings *.” A collection of such Proverbs, I now do myself the honour of presenting to your Lordship, and in that language which was spoken by the first inhabitants of the British Isles. It was the manner of the wise men of old, to deliver their instructions, not with the ostentatious pomp of eloquence and erudition, but in short sayings and simple terms; not glit-


* Proverbs of Solomon, chap. i. verse 5. 6.


[DA 6]

tering with the gaudy ornaments of the courtezan, but modestly arrayed in the sober garb of mild philosophy. By those means they easily sunk into the heart, and remained fixed in the memory. Of this the sayings of the seven celebrated Wise Men of Greece, inscribed in the Temple of Apollo at Delphi, afford us a striking instance; than each of which it would be hard to find any thing more simple, more solid, and more sensible. They have, most evidently, that character which Horace points out as the highest proof of merit,

Ut sibi quisquis
Speret idem; sudet multum, multumque laboret
Ausus idem.

The SIMPLE ONES may perhaps despise them for the unadorned plainness of the expression, but the WISE will ponder them in their hearts, and grow wiser by the instruction they convey. In effect, many large and elaborate Treatises are employed only in lengthening out, or confirming the moral, or prudential precepts, the substance of which is given us in these short texts.

In the present collection are several sayings that allude to circumstances not generally known; but as they frequently occur in common discourse, it seemed proper that they should be inserted, and the reader is led to their meaning by short notes. But many of these PROVERBS are the lessons that, many ages ago, were given to the people by the DRUIDS, who, as we are taught by Diogenes Laertius, had made considerable advan-


[DA 7]

ces in philosophy, before that study was known to the Greeks. Without being engravde on brass or marble, their just and solid sense hath preserved them in the memories of men, and handed them down, as a valuable treasure, to succeeding generations. They have long survived the extinction of the Druids, and have escaped safe from the wreck of ages. Of these I have gathered as many as I could: and it appeared to me, that a collection of the WISE SAYINGS OF CELTIC SAGES, could not so properly be presented to any person, as to that worthy Peer, who has deserved so well of his country, by inciting men of learning to preserve the ancient monuments of that nation, to which he does honour, and whose honour he seeks. The venerable Father of History says, he wrote with a view †, “that neither the memory of the past might be obliterated by time, nor great and admirable things lose their due praise.” Animated by the same genius, the Earl of Buchan’s patriotic spirit has called forth a numerous body, to recover, preserve, and continue those national monuments that were ready to be swallowed up in the gulph of oblivion. Much of what they may afterwards produce may therefore be justly attributed to that warning voice which roused them from their careless slumber, as Ulysses


† See Herodotus in Clio. chap. i. [Greugais]


[DA 8]

claimed merit from the deeds of the hero he had brought into the field.

Injecique manum, fortemque ad fortia misi,
Ergo opera illius mea sunt.

Happy would that nation be, where every person of distinguished rank would endeavour to distinguish himself still more essentially, by being beneficial to the public, and thereby confirm our old Gaelic saying, <gai>“Bithidh meas is fearr air a mheangan is airde ‡”<eng>

Independent of the vicissitudes of courts, and the cheerful fashions of the gay and giddy, your Lordship has chalked out a path of honour to yourself. That its memory may continue to the latest ages, and that many may be incited to emulate so bright an example, is the earnest and sincere wish of the Compiler.

I am,
MY LORD,
(With the greatest respect,)
Your LORDSHIP’s most obliged,
And most obedient humble servant,
DONALD MACINTOSH.


‡ The fairest fruit is on the highest bough.


[DA 9]

ADVERTISEMENT.

THE author’s design in making the following collection, was to preserve the language, and a few remains of the ancient customs of Scotland, by bringing so many of the proverbial sayings of the people into one point of view. Having intimated to several gentlemen his wish to that purpose, they were pleased to encourage him; and though many of them were better qualified for the task than himself, yet they excused themselves on account of other engagements, promising what assistance they could afford. Under this encouragement, he therefore set about it; but he soon found that he, by himself, was not sufficiently able for the business, and therefore was obliged to have recourse to several gentlemen well versed in Gaelic antiquities, who kindly furnished him with materials; without which, he should not have been able to proceed. The following gentlemen, to whom he has laid himself under particular obligations, it is hoped, will not take it amiss that he mention them on this occasion.

To that worthy Baronet Sir James Foulis of Colinton, he returns his warmest thanks, not only for the perusal of some valuable Gaelic manuscripts, but for the patronage and encouragement he has afforded him in the conduct of the work. He has received particular obligations from Professor Ferguson, a gentleman to whom this country is much indebted, and from Neil Ferguson, Esq; of Pitcullo, the kind attention of both which gentlemen have considerably forwarded this work. His thanks are likewise due to the Reverend Mr. John Stewart, of Luss;—the Reverend Mr. James Maclagan, Blair of Athole;—the Reverend Mr. Joseph Macgregor, of Edinburgh;—Mr. William Morrison, writer in Edinburgh and Mr. Robert Macfarlane, schoolmaster, all of whom were particularly obliging, having procured him the perusal of many curious manuscripts, which considerably, augmented this collection.


[DA 10]

ADVERTISEMENT.

He must not omit returning thanks to John Macintosh from Lochaber, formerly a tenant under Macdonald of Kepoch, a worthy honest man, well versed in old Gaelic sayings.

With respect to the execution, the Compiler has to observe, that, diffident of his own abilities, he has sought for assistance wherever he could find it, and is sensible, that, in rendering the sense of proverbial expressions in a language so difficult to translate literally, he has much occasion to bespeak the indulgence of the Reader.

The proverbs in this collection have, in their own native language, a peculiar elegance and strength, which cannot be so well transfused into another tongue: nevertheless, the mere English reader, it is hoped, will see them pregnant with the strongest features of masculine good sense, and the noblest maxims of prudence and of virtue.

The remains of descriptive poetry produced by the same people, which have been transmitted down to our times, have already procured the admiration of men of taste all over Europe, and obtained a degree of celebrity altogether unknown to any other literary production, either in ancient, or in modern times; and it is hoped, that their lessons of virtue and morality, and the maxims of prudence inculcated in their proverbial sayings, will be likewise found worthy of the same admiration.

One principal object the Compiler had in view, was to account for some ancient practices still continued in the Highlands, which are evidently derived from a very remote antiquity, for which reason he has accompanied many of the proverbs with explanatory notes, tending to illustrate what might otherwise seem to be obscure. If his conjectures on those particulars seem probable, they may perhaps induce Gentlemen of greater abilities, more thoroughly to investigate the subject, and thereby enable their countrymen the better to understand and to relish the works of Ossian, and the later Bards.

Edinburgh, 25th May 1785.


[TD 1]

A
COLLECTION
OF
GAELIC PROVERBS.

ECCLESIASTICUS, viii. 8. Despise not the discourse of the wise, but acquaint thyself with their proverbs; for of them thou shalt receive instruction——.

Verse 9. Miss not the discourse of the elders; for they also learned of their fathers.


[TD 2]

<gai>CO’-CHRUINNEACHADH
DO
GHNA-FHOCAIL
GHAELICH.

AM fear a luigheas ’sa pholl, togaidh e ’n làthach.

An leanabh nach foghlam thu re do ghlùn, cha’ n fhoghlam thu re do chluais. (a)

Am fear leis am fuar fuaidheadh e. (b)
Am fear leis nach lèir a leas, ’s mor do chèil a chailleas e.
5 Ai’nichear fear doimeag air na sràidibh.
Am fear aig am bi ìm gheibh e im. (c)
Am fear a ghoideas an t snàthad ghoideadh e ’m mèuran na ’m faodadh e. (d)
An dall air muin a chrùbaich.
An ni chuir na maoir a dh’ ifrinn:
Faraid a ni b’ fhearr a b’ aithne dhoibh.


<eng>(a) Similar to “Betwixt three and thirteen, bend the twig while it is green.”
(b) Similar to “Let him that is cold, blow up the coal.”


A
COLLECTION
OF
GAELIC PROVERBS.

HE who lies down in the puddle, will rise up in dirt.
The child whom you neglect to tutor at your knee, you will not tutor when he comes to your ear. (a)
He who feels cold, let him cloath. (b)
He who does not see his good, has missed the purpose of being wise.
5 The slut’s husband is known in the streets.
He who has much will get more. (c)
He who steals the needle, would steal the thimble if he could. (d)
The blind mounted on the lame.
The thing that sent the messengers to hell:
Was asking what they knew full well.


(c) Or, literally, “He who has butter, will get more.”
(d) Like the English proverb, “He who would steal an egg, would steal an ox.”


[TD 3]

<gai>An neach is tàir’ a bhios a stigh ’s ann leis ’s aird a mhuinntir. (i)
An ni nach cluinn thu ’n diu, cha ’n aithris thu maireach.
35 An ni a thig leis a ghaoith, falbhaidh e leis an uisge.
A ni chi na big, ’s e ni na big.

A ni chluineas na big, ’s e channas na big. (k)
Air fhad ’s gu’n d’ theid thu ’m muigh, na toir droch sgèul dachaidh ort fèin.
Am fear a dh’ imich an cruine, cha d’ fhios co dhiubh b’ fhearr, luathas no maille.
40 Am fear nach teich, teichir roimhe.
Am fear a bhios fad aig an aisig gheibh e thairis uair-eigin.
Am port is fearr a sheinn Ruadh-righ riamh, ghabhta seirbh dheth. (l)
Am fear nach gabh nar a gheibh, cha ’n fhaidh nar is àil.
Am fear a ghleitheas a theangaidh, gleidhidh e charaid.
45 Am fear nach bi olc na aire, cha smuainich e olc fir eile.
Am fear a bhios bèudach e fein, cha scuir e dh’èigneach chàich.
Saolaidh bradaich nàm bruach g’ar gadaichin uile càch.
A bho is meas’ a th’ann sa bhuaile is i ’s airde gèum.
Aon inghean caillich aon èun teallaich.
50 Am fear is faide saoghal ’s e ’s mo chi.
Am fear nach treabh air muir, cha treabh e air tir.
Adhaircibh fad air a chrodh tha fada uainn.
Am fear nach seall roimh seallaidh e na dhèigh.

Air dha bhi reamhar no caol, ’s mairg nach beathaicheadh laogh dha fein.


<eng>(i) Like “We hounds killed the hare, quoth the blear-ey’d messen.”


He who does least, boasts most of the service. (i)

What you do not hear to-day, you will not repeat to-morrow.
35 What comes by the wind, goes by the rain.
That which the little one sees, is that which the little one does.
That which they hear, is that they repeat. (k)
However far you travel abroad, bring home no bad report of yourself.
He who has travelled over the globe, cannot yet tell which helped him forward most, deliberation or speed.
40 He who does not fly, will be fled from.
He who waits at the ferry, will some time get over.

The sweetest tune that ever Rory played, may be played till it grow harsh. (l)
He who will not when he may; when he will he shall have nay.
He who holds his tongue, holds his friend.
45 He who intends no evil, dreads no evil.

He who is conscious of guilt himself, will endeavour to involve others.
The rogue thinks every one else a thief.
The sorry cow has the loudest low.
An only daughter, an only chick at the fire-side.
50 He who lives longest sees most.
Who will not work at sea, will not work on land.
The far cow has long horns.
He who will not look before him, will have occasion to look behind him.
Be he fat or lean, woe to him who will not rear a calf for himself.


(k) Similar to “As the old cock crows, the young cock learns.”
(l) Rory was a famous harper.

[TD 4]

<gai>55 Am fear a theid do ’n tigh mhor gun ghnothach, gheibh e gnothach as.
Am fear nach dean cur re la fuar, cha dean e buain re la teath.
An ni nach gabh nigheadh, cha ghabh e fàsgadh.
Am fear nach fregair athair no mhathair, fregaireadh e ni ’s tàire, craicion an laoigh. (m)
Am fearnach do thàr gu bhogha, thàr gu chloidheamh. (n)
60 Am fear nach do chleachd chloidheamh, fagaidh e na dheigh e.
Am fear nach guth a ghuth, cha rath a rath.
Am fear d’ an dàn a chroich, cha d’theid gu brath a bhathadh.
Am fear nach toigh leam, tilgidh mi mo spideag air.
An luigh nach faighear, cha’n i chobhrais.
65 As an dris ann san dreoghann.
Am fear nach èisd ris n’as olc leis, cha’n fhaic e n’as ait leis.
Am fear nach mèudaich an carn g’a meudaich e chroich. (o)
Am fear a bhios carrach sa bhaìlle so, biodh e carrach sa bhaill’ ud thall (p).
Am fear a ni obair na am, biodh e na leath thamh.
70 Am fear is luaith lamh, ’s e is fearr cuid.
An uair a luighis a ghaoth, ’s maol gach sian. (q)
An ni a thug an eaghan o na gabhraibh. (r)
Am fear nach cunnda rium, cha chunndain ris. (s)


<eng>(m) A modern proverb, alluding to profligates enlisting for soldiers.
(n) Said of those who make a precipitate flight.
(o) The custom of throwing a stone into every carn they come to, is very antient, and still kept up by the country people, out of respect to their deceased friends.
(p) The same as, <gai>“An cleachd a bhios aig duin’ ag an tigh biodh e aig air cheilidh,”<eng> i. e. “The manners a man has at home, he carries abroad.”
(q) Like, “No weather is ill, if the wind be still.”


55 He who goes to the hall without an errand, will find an errand there.
He who will not sow on a cold day, will not reap in a warm one.
What will not wash will not wring.
He who will neither obey father or mother, must obey the calf’s skin. (m)
He who did not reach his bow, reach’d his sword. (n)
60 He who is not used to a sword, will leave it behind.
He whose word is not a word, will find his lot sink to nought.
Who is born to be hanged, will never be drowned.
The man I do not like, must bear my blame.
The herb which cannot be found, will heal no wound.
65 Out of the briar into the thorns.
He who will not listen to what he dislikes, will not see what he likes.
Who will not add to the cairn, may he add to the gibbet (o).
Whoever is a mangy here, will be a mangy there. (p)

Who does his work in season, will be half idle.
70 The quickest hand has the bed share.
When the wind is still, the shower is blunt (q).
What kept the goats from the ivy? (r).
The man who keeps no account of his good acts to me, I’ll repay without measure (s).


(r) The steep rock.
(s) Said by Henry Wynd at the conflict betwixt the Macphersons and Davidsons on the north Inch of Perth.

I cannot forbear taking this opportunity of pointing out a mistake of the Scottish historians, (though briefly related in Shaw’s History of Moray) a mistake they have been led into, by their ignorance of the Gaelic language, and the simila-


[TD 5]

<gai>An uair a tharruingeas gach duin’ a chuid thuige, ’s mairg a bhiodh gun chuid aige.<eng>


rity of the two names Clan Mhic Dhai’, i. e. the Davidsons, and Clan Mhic Aoi’, i. e. the Mackays. I must crave the indulgence of relating at length the story which gave rise to the above saying.

In the year 1291, Macdonald King of the Isles (which title he acquired in virtue of an invitation from the other chiefs to lead them against the Danes, and afterwards by a marriage with the heiress of the Danish monarchy in Sky,) sent his nephew, Angus Macintosh of that Ilk, to Dougall Dall Macgillicattan, chief of the Clan Chattan, to acquaint him that the King intended to visit him. At this time it was a custom when the King or Lord paid a visit to any of his vassals, that he was presented with the daughter, or failing a daughter, the wife of the vassal, for his companion for the night, if required. This barbarous custom, though seldom practised, Macgillicattan knew would not be dispensed with upon this occasion; and having an only daughter, in order to prevent the bad consequence he foresaw would happen, he offered this daughter in marriage to Macintosh, together with his estate, and the chieftainship of the Clan Chattan. This event accordingly took place, and Macintosh by this means became captain or leader of the Clan Chattan.

The greatest part of Macintoshes estate thus acquired being a considerable time let to the Camerons, and they having often refused to pay the stipulated rent, Macintosh was often obliged to seize their cattle, in consequence of which, several conflicts ensued betwixt them, with various success, but as that of Innernahavon in Badenoch gave rise to the one on the north Inch of Perth, I shall briefly relate both.

About the year 1296, the Camerons conveened their numerous clan and dependents, together with such others as they could prevail upon to assist them, as the Campbells, Macdonalds, &c. to make reprisals on Macintosh, who knowing their intention, soon collected an equal force, consisting also of several clans, under the general name of Clan Chattan, to oppose them; but when the two armies came


When every one draws to him his own, it is bad with him who has nothing.


in sight, an unseasonable difference arose betwixt two of these Clans, viz. the Macphersons and Davidsons; though they both agreed that Macintosh should command the whole, as Captain of the Clan Chattan, yet they could not agree who should have the right of the other; Macpherson of Cluny contended for it, as chief of the Clan Chattan, and Davidson of Innernahavon, as being head of another branch equally ancient. The dispute was at length referred to Macintosh the captain, who imprudently decided in favour of Davidson of Innernahavon, which gave such offence to Macpherson of Cluny, that he drew off his men, who stood idle spectators, while the Macintoshes and Davidsons, overpowered by numbers, were defeated. Macintosh being irritated and disappointed by this behaviour of the Macphersons, on the night following, sent his own bard to the camp of the Macphersons, as if he had come from the Camerons to provoke them to fight, which he accomplished by repeating the following satyrical lines:

<gai>Tha luchd na foilleadh air an tom,
Is am Balg-Shuilich donn na dhraip;
Cha b’ e bhur cairdeas ruinn a bh’ ann
Ach bhur lamh a bhi tais.<eng>

i. e. The false party are on the field, beholding the chief in danger, it was not your love to us, that made you abstain from fighting, but merely your own cowardice.

This reproach so stung Macpherson, that calling up his men, he attacked the Camerons that same night in their camp, and made a dreadful slaughter of them, pursued them to the foot of Binn-imhais, and killed their chief Charles Macgilony, at a place called Coire Thearlaich, i. e. Charles’s Valley.

Though the above conflict put an end to the dispute with the Camerons at that time, yet it created another equally dangerous betwixt the Macphersons and Davidsons, these were perpetually plundering and killing each other; insomuch, that the King sent Lindsay Earl of Crawfurd, and Dunbar Earl of Moray, two of the greatest no-


[TD 6]

<gai>75 An uair a theid na meirlich a throd, thig daoin’ eanraig gu’n cuid.
An uair a scuireas a meur do shileadh, scuiridh ’m beul do mholadh.


<eng>blemen in the kingdom, to compromise matters and reconcile them. This being found impossible to do without bloodshed, gave rise to the celebrated trial of valour on the north Inch of Perth, which happened on Monday before the feast of St. Michael, in the time of King Robert the Third, in the year 1396.

The Scottish historians say that it was fought betwixt the Clan Chattan and Clan Kay, the last they supposed to be the Mackays, instead of the Clan Cay or Davidsons, which occasioned their mistake, the Mackays not even inhabiting near, but at a great distance from the Clan Chattan.

It was agreed that the Macphersons and Davidsons should each chuse thirty men from their several clans, who were to fight before the King and court, and the conquerors were ever after to be the superior.

The north Inch of Perth was chosen as the field of battle, and the combatants were allowed no other weapons but broad swords.

The day appointed being come, both parties appeared, but upon mustering the combatants, the Macphersons wanted one of their number, he having fallen sick; it was proposed to balance the difference, by withdrawing one of the Davidsons, but so resolved were they upon conquering their opponents, that not one would be prevailed upon to quit the danger. In this emergency, one Henry Wynd, a foundling, brought up in an hospital at Perth, commonly called an Gobh Crom, i. e. the Crooked Smith, offered to supply the sick man’s place for a French crown of gold, about three half crown’s sterling money, a great sum in those days.

Every thing being now settled, the combatants began with incredible fury, and the Crooked Smith being an able swordsman contributed much to the honour of the day, victory declaring for the Macphersons, of whom only ten besides the Gobh Crom were left alive, and all dangerously


75 When thieves fall out, true men come at their own.

When the finger ceaseth to drop, the mouth ceaseth to praise.


wounded. The Davidsons were all cut off except one man, who, remaining unhurt, threw himself into the Tay, and escaped.

Henry Wynd set out from Perth after the battle, with a horse load of his effects, and swore he would not take up his habitation till his load fell, which happened in Strathdone, in Aberdeenshire, where he took up his residence. The place is still called, <gai>Leac ’ic a Ghobhain,<eng> i. e. The Smith’s Dwelling. The Smiths, or Gows, and Macglashans are commonly called, <gai>Sliochd a Ghobh Chruim,<eng> i. e. The descendents of the Crooked Smith; but all agree that he had no posterity, though he had many followers of the first rank, to the number of twelve, who were proud of being reputed the children of so valiant a man; and the more to ingratiate themselves in his favour, they generally learned to make swords as well as to use them, which occasioned their being called Gow, i. e. Smith. His twelve apprentices spread themselves all over the kingdom. Most of them took the name of Macintosh; those who write otherwise, own their descent from them, though many of them are Macphersons, &c.

Smith of Balharry’s motto, <gai>“Caraid an am feum,”<eng> i. e. “A friend in need,” seems to allude to the Gobh Croms assisting the Macphersons on the above occasion.

As soon as the Gobh Crom had killed a man, he sat down to rest, and being perceived by the captain, he demanded the reason; the other answered, that he had performed his engagement, and done enough for his wages; the captain replied, that no wages would be counted to him, he should have an equivalent for his valour; upon which he immediately got up to fight, and repeated the above saying.—Pen. Macin. Pen. Macph. Buchan. Abercrom. Hist. of Moray, &c. &c.


[TD 7]

<gai>Am fear nach cluinn gu maith, cha toir e ach droch fhreagairt.
An uair a bhios ni aig a chat ni i dùrdan (t).
Am fear is faide chuaidh riamh o’ n tigh, b’ e ceol bu bhinne chual e riamh dol dachaidh.
80 A chlach nach tachir re m’ chois, cha chiùr i mi.
Am fear a bhios na thamh cuiridh e’n cat ’s teine.
A nì ni subhach an darna h-Abba, ni e dubhach an t-Abb’ eile. (u)
An fear aig am bi maighistir, biodh seis aige.
Am fear is faide chaidh riamh o ’n tigh, bha co fad aige re thidhinn da-thigh.
85 Am focal a thig o Ifrinn ’s e gheibh, ma ’se ’s mo bheir.
Am fear nach fosgail a sporan, fosgailidh e ’bhèul.

Amharaic romhad, ma’n toir thu do leùm.
An cron a bhios ’san aodan, cha’n fhaodar fholach.
Am fear gu’n dán an donas, ’sann da ’bheanas.

90 Am fear nach gabh comhairle, gabhaidh e cama-lorg.
Am fear air am bi an t amhrath, cha’n ann is t-Samhr’as fhusadh e.
An uair a bhios an copan làn cuiridh e thairis.
Am fear a bhios fearg air a ghna, ’s cosmhuil a ghne ris an dris:
A bheirt sin mach faighear ach cearr, ’s foi ’din is fearr a dheanamh ris.
An ni a chuir an earb air an loch.
95 Aighear an fhileair dhuibh an taobh tuath, (x)
Am fear nach dean bail air beul a bhuilg, ni iochdair bail air fèin.
Am fear a theid a ghna’ mach le lian, gheibh e eoin uaireigin.
An t ainm gun an tairbhe.
Am fear nach teagaisg Dia cha teagaisg duine.


<eng>(t) Applied to such mean persons as are too noisy and insufferable when they once become rich.


He who hears ill, will give but a sorry answer.

When the cat has hold, she purrs (t).
To him that travelleth farthest abroad, the sweetest sound he hears, is still go home.
80 The stone that meets not with my foot, will not hurt me.
An idle man will put the cat in the fire.
What makes one Abbot glad, will make another sad.

He who has a master, has found his match (u).
The farther a man goes from home, the farther will be his way back.
85 A word from Hell will get the thing if it bid most.
A man who does not open his purse, should open his mouth with fair words.
Look before you leap.
A blot in the forehead cannot be hid.
The man for whom the ill was destined, is him it strikes.
90 The man who will not be advised on his way, must go astray.
The man who is doomed to misfortune, will find no relief even in summer.
When the cup is full, it runs over.
The fretful temper is like the thorn:

What cannot be helped must be borne.

What made the roe take the water?
95 The black Musician’s nearest way to the north. (x)
If you do not spare the top of the sack, the bottom will spare itself.
He who spreads his net every day, will catch birds sometimes.
The name without the thing.
Whom God hath not taught, man cannot.


(u) Or, “What is joy to one, is grief to another.”
(x) Something like, “You go far about to seek the nearest.


[TD 8]

<gai>100 Am fear a mharbhadh a mhathair a chianabh, bheireadh e beo ’nios i. (y)
Am fear a bhios san fhèighe, cuiridh na h-uile fear a chas air.
Am fear nach cuir a shnaim, caillidh e cheud ghream. (z)
An tobar nach traogh.
Am fear nach treabh aig baile, cha treabh e as.

B

BI g’a subhach, geinmnich, moch-thrathach san t-samhra. (a)
Bi g’a curraigeach, brógach brochanach ’sa gheamhra.

Biodh ’n t-ubhal is fearr air a mheangan is arde.
Bheir duine beath air éigin, ach cha toir e rath air eigin.
5 Biodh mìr a ghil’ easgaidh air gach mèis.

Biodh cuid an amadain am beul a bhuilg.
Bheir aon fhear each gu uisg, ach cha toir a dha dheug air ol.
Biodh dùil re fear feachd, ach chà bhì dùil re fear lic.
Buinigear buaigh le foidhidin. (b)

10 Bean tighe ghanntair, ’s is luaith chailltear.
Buille ’s gach aon chraoibh, ’s gun chraobh idir a leagadh.


<eng>(y) When a good day appears after a heavy storm.
(z) A cunning taylor made his apprentice (who had served out his time,) believe that he still wanted the principal part of his craft, which he was under no obligation to give him without a good sum of money; the young


100 The man who killed his mother a little while ago, would bring her alive now. (y)
When a man once falls into the mire, every one treads on him.
He who will not knot his thread, must lose the first stitch (z)
The fountain that never dries up.
He who will not work at home, will not work abroad.

B

IN summer be chearful, continent and early. (a)

In winter be well hooded, well shod, and well fed with gruel.
The fairest apple is on the highest bough.
A man may force a livelihood, but cannot force good luck.
5 The industrious man’s morsel is on every man’s table.
The fool’s portion is at the mouth of the sack.
One man may lead a horse to the water, but twelve cannot make him drink.
There is hope that a man may return from the wars, but not from the grave.
Victory is to be got by patience. (b)
10 The mistress of a starving family is soonest lost.
A stroke at every tree, yet none is felled.


man, in order to be master of the business, agreed to the proposal, and only received the above advice for his money.
(a) An advice of the Druids, See Smith’s Gaelic Antiquities.
(b) “Vincenda omnis fortuna ferendo est.”


[TD 9]

<gai>Bir a’ d’ dheirn fein na fáisg; re d’namhad t-easbhaidh na rùisg; Rinn scineadh re t-fheóil na èisd; bèisd nimh re d’ bheo, na dùisg.

Breac a linne, slat a coille, ’s fiadh a fireach, meirleadh nach do ghabh duine riamh nàir as. (c)

Buille gach aon fhir an ceann an fhir charraich.
15 Bathaidh uisge teath teine.
Breitich a bhaird ris a chaistiail.
Bha rud-eigin a dh’ uisg far am batht’ an gamhain.
B’ usadh Eoghan a chiur aír each.
Bha thu’ d’ shlainte nuair chaidh do chot’ a dheanamh.
20 Bu mhaith impidh choilich ma shiol a thoirt do na cearcan.
Bi d’ thosd ’s bi d’ chom.
Bu cheanach leam t-ubh air do ghloc.
B’ e ím a chuir a thigh àirich e.
Biodh bean mhuinter aig an fheannaig’ san fhoghar. (d)
25 Bheir fóid a bhreith ’sa bháis, duìn’ air atha ’s air éigin.
Beiridh caor dhubh uan geal.
Bu mhath ’n teachdair thu shire ’n aoig.
Bu fhaide bhiodh donas air droch mhnai, na bhiodhainse deanamh sin.
Beus na tuath air am bithear ’s e ’nithear.

30 Beannachd dhut féin is mallach’d do d’ bheul eannsaich.
Beathaich thusa mis’ an diu, is beathaichidh mis’ thus’ a maireach.


<eng>(c) Because these grew spontaneously, without the least trouble to the owners, it was thought a hardship to debar the commonality from using freedom with them.


Squeeze not the sharp point in your hand; discover not your wants to an enemy; when the dagger is at your breast, let nothing else divert your attention; or never arouse a venomous creature.
A fish from the river, a tree from the forest, and a deer from the mountain, are thefts no man was ever ashamed of. (c)
Every man’s stroke is at the mangy man’s head.
15 Hot water will quench fire.
The bard foreswore the castle.
There was some water where the stirk was drown’d.
It were easier to set Owen on horseback.
You was in health when your coat was made.
20 Well pleaded the cock for corn to the hens.

Be silent, but attentive.
Dear bought egg with so much cackling.
That were sending butter to the grazier’s house.
The rook has her servant in harvest. (d)

25 The spot where a man is doomed to be born and to die, will force him thither.
A black ewe will have a white lamb.
You would be a good messenger to send for death.
Evil will possess a bad woman, longer than this may be done.
The way of the folk you live with, is what you must follow.
30 My blessing to you, but curse to your teacher.

Feed me to-day, and I’ll feed you to-morrow.


(d) Said of those who employ servants without having occasion for them.


[TD 10]

<gai>Beath’ Chonain a measg nan Deomhanaibh, “Ma’s ole dhamh, cha’n fhearr dhaibh.” (e)
Balach is balgair’ tighearna, dithis nach bu choir leig leo:
Buail am balach air a charbad, is buail am balgair air an t-sròin.
35 B’ e íasd an Deomhan do n’ mhuilin e. (f)
Biodh sonas an lorg na caitheadh
Biodh teine maith ’n sin nuair ghabhas e
Bu mhor am bèud do bheul binn a dhol gu brath fo thalamh. (g)
B’ fhearr a bhi samhach, no droch dhàn a ghabhail.
40 Beiridh bean mac, ach ’s e Dia’ nì an t oighre.

Bheir duine glic breith bliadhna, air neach ann ’n ùin’ aon oidhche.
Bhuàil iad a ceann air an amraidh. (h)
Beannachd nan siubhal a’s nan im’eachd! ’s e ’n diugh di h-aoin, cha chluinn iad sinne. (i)
Bhìodh sonas air dràig, na’ m faigheadh e mar dhortadh e.


<eng>(e) Conan was one of Fingal’s heroes; a rash, turbulent, but brave youth; an account of several imprudent actions of his, are often to be met with in antient poems, tales, proverbs, &c. He, with some others, went to hell in pursuit of some of their companions who could not be found elsewhere, and as they were going out a devil gave Conan a stroke, which he immediately returned; meantime he gate was shut, and Conan left fighting with the devils, who all came to revenge their neighbour’s quarrel. This is called Conan’s Life in Hell. Hell was thought to be a cold island at that time, as the Iurna, the Gaelic name thereof, signifies.
(f) i. e. To lend any thing to one who will not return it.
(g) Said of those who have a bad voice for singing.
(h) Said of a servant who looks like her meat.


The life of Conan among the Devils—“If they bring ill to me, they get no better.” (e)
A surly clown, and a Lord’s dog, are two that ought not to be spared:
Knock the clown upon the ear, and the dog on the nose.
35 Lending the Devil a miln. (f)
Happiness keeps the tract of the generous.
It will be a good fire when it burns.
What a pity it is, that that sweet voice of your’s should ever go to the grave. (g)
Better be silent, than receive an affront.
40 A woman may bear a son, but God makes him an heir.
The wise man will judge in one night, what you are to be for the year.
They have struck her head against the pantry. (h)
My blessing attend them! this is Friday, they will not hear us. (i)
It would be well with the spendthrift, if he got as he spent.


(i) An expression commonly used by superstitious people as a counter charm against the power of fairies, which they repeat always whenever they have occasion to mention their names, and which they believe will prevent them from having their children and women in childbed carried off, &c. What gave rise to these extravagancies, was the great opinion they entertained of the antient Druids, who were perhaps the greatest philosophers the world ever produced, and who by their profound knowledge in natural causes, performed such surprising things as could not fail raising the wonder and terror of the people, which kept them greatly in awe, and rendered them subservient in all things to the will of their governors. These sages were considered as acting by a divine million; hence the many wonderful stories of fairies, inchantments, ghosts, &c. constantly handed about. Magic is justly called <gai>Druidheachd<eng> in


[TD 11]

<gai>45 Bu gheanaich a cheud tè chuir a meur ’do bheul.
Biodh cron duine cho mor re beinn, ma’n lèur dha feine e.
Bathadh mor aig oir thir.
Biodh na gabhair boghar san fhoghar.

Bo mhaol am buaile choimhich.
50 Brisidh an teangaidh bhog an cneath.
Buil’ an doill ma’n dabhaich, no mar thilg an dall a phloc.
Be sin am mám air muin an t saic.
B’ fhearr suidh laimh re fear air chuthach, no fear lom nochdadh.

55 Biodh di h-aion an aghaidh na seachdain.


<eng>Gaelic, (though Tolland objects to it), for <gai>Druidh<eng> signifies wise, penetrating, &c. hence, <gai>Druidheachd<eng>, or profound wisdom. The wise men who came to see our Saviour, are called Druids in the Gaelic New Testament.

By this means the Druids had the whole management of the nation in their own hands, they were statesmen, lawyers, physicians, as well as divines, and took care to have the children of the nobility always under their tuition, which made them always incline to their interest, and gave them an uncontroulable authority.

Not to commit any of the secrets of their religion to writing, (though they had the use of letters,) was part of their policy, which they thought too sacred to be exposed to the laity, as it might happen if written, and would also lessen their authority, and tend to overturn their order; it is therefore to be regretted, that several arts and other secrets have died with them, owing to the above reason.

They usually held their courts on round hills, termed <gai>Sithain,<eng> from <gai>Sith,<eng> Peace, and <gai>Dùn<eng>, Hill, Hills of Peace; the judges were called Sichin, i. e. Peace-makers, the very name still given to fairies by the Highlanders.

After the introduction of Christianity, they fled to woods, caves, remote islands, and other sequestered places, for the


45 She was sharp set who first put finger in thy mouth.
A man’s fault will be as big as a mountain, before he himself can see it.
Wrecks are most frequent near the shore.
The goat is deaf while she plucks the ripe ear in harvest.
A hornless cow in a strange fold.
50 A smooth tongue will blunt wrath.
As the blind struck the tub, or as the blind threw his club.
That were the handful over and above the sack.
Better be near the mad than the needy.
Friday is contrary, be the week foul or fair.

55 The child that tumbled in the ashes, may rise to be a proud man.


free exercise of their religion, and continued even for ages little heeded by the Christian world; here they waited patiently, like the Jews, subjecting themselves to many hardships in expectation of a deliverance on account of their sanctity. The Danes and Norwegians, who continued under their yoke, made many efforts to restore them to their former state. It was principally by the instigation of the exiled Druids that these northern nations so often infested this island, even after Christianity was firmly established, in order to be revenged on the authors of their calamity.

The vulgar still believe that they inhabit their ancient abodes, though invisible to them, and are possessed of great power.

There is no doubt of their carrying off women and children while they remained, as well as other necessaries to their secret abodes, and their having no communication with the rest of the world, has given rise to the absurd opinion of their existing to this day, and in the same practice: the vulgar imagine that every round hill, or law in the country, are full of the <gai>Sithchin<eng>, or fairies, and it would be in vain to persuade them of the contrary.


[TD 12]

<gai>Biodh chnuidh dhearanach cràiteach.
Biodh earalas meirlich agad air gach neach, ach na dean mearlach do neach idir.
Biodh gach nì mar is àill le Dia.
Ba mhigheach sin na’m bitheadh e ’n dán.
60 Bheirin cuid oidhche dha, ge’ d bhiodh ceann fir fodh achlais.
Bár an fhithich orra. (k)
Bu dubh a dhiol.
Bha n uair ga’ rith.
Buaire circ gun cheann.
65 Bheir na h-uile di domhnaich seachdain leis.
Bha iasd riamh feadh an t-saoghail.
Bheireadh e sniosnach air croidh’ na cloich.
B’olc an airidh ga’n deanadh aimsir thirim dolaidh.
Bagair ’s na buail.
70 Buille sa cheann, no dha san amhaich.

Bha la eil’ann.
Bu dual da sin.
B’fhear a leith ’n dè no gu, leir an diu.


<eng> (k) It is commonly thought that the young ravens kill the old.


The last sufferings will be grievous.
Watch that you be not robbed, but treat no man as a thief.
Every thing must be as God will have it.
It is come in time, if so ordained.
60 I would lodge him a night, though he had a man’s head under his arm.
The ravens lot befall them. (k)
Black was his fate.
His hour was chasing him.
As the hen rages without the head.
65 Every Sunday brings on a week.
Borrowing and lending was always in fashion.
It would move the heart of a stone
It is a pity fair weather should do harm.
Threaten, but strike not.
70 It can be but one blow on the head, or two on the neck.
I have seen another day.
He has it of kind, or it runs in his blood.
The half yesterday, would have been better than the whole, to-day.


[TD 13]

C

<gai>CHA’N e na h-uile la’ bhios mòid aig Macantòisich. (a)
Cha’n e na huile la theid Macnèil air each. (b)
Cha’n e ceud sgèul an t-sagairt bu choir a chroidsin.
Cha tig am bàs gun leath sgeul.
5 Cha dean a ghloir bhoidheach, an t-amadan sàthach. (c)
Cha cheol do dhuin’ a bhron uìl’ aithris.
Cha toir muir no mon’ a chuid o dhuine sona, ’s cha ghlè duine don’ an t-ald.
Cha d’ bhrios deadh uram ceann duìne riamh.
Cha d’ theid sabhal thair tigh mar bi gaoth ro mhor ann.


<eng>(a) Toshach or Macintosh of Monyvaird, Chamberlain to the Earl of Perth, held a regality court at Monyvaird; it is commonly reported, that he caused one to be hanged each court day, in order to make himself famous, and to strike terror into the thieves, which severity occasioned the above saying.

The place where the gibbet stood, is still known by the name of the Gallow-know; he, at a certain time of the year, used to make his vassals wade into a lake near that place, and he who waded farthest, was under the necessity of paying a cow, as a particular mark of the chief’s regard. This was, by the bye, an odd method of paying a compliment.

By a genealogy of the family found in the Countess of Caithness’s Bible in the library of Taymouth, of which I have seen a copy, they are descended of Edward, a son of Macintosh of that Ilk, though they always denied this, and differed both in firname and armorial bearing from the other Macintoshes, calling themselves Tòshach, i. e. Thane, first, or chief, whereas the other Macintoshes call themselves Macantòisich or Macintosh, i. e. Thane’s son; both designations alludes to their descent from the


C

IT is not every day Macintosh holds a court. (a)
It is not every day Macniel mounts his horse. (b)
It is not the first word of a priest, you are to believe.
Death never came without an excuse.
5 Fair words fill not the fool’s belly. (c)

It is not prudent for a man to publish all his sorrows.
Neither seas nor mountains can bar the lucky, but the naughty cannot even find his way to the brook.
Civility never got a man a broken head.
The barn will not be blown over the house without a great wind.


famous Macduff Thane of Fife. The last Toshach of Monyvaird went to Carolina forty or fifty years ago. ACHMAR’s Inquiry.

(b) There is an ingenious sarcastical description of setting Macniel on horseback, in Gaelic, in my hands, full of wit and humour, (too long to be here inserted), setting forth the grandeur, antiquity, and valour of Macniel of Bara.

Toland in his letters upon the Druids, says, that the then Macniel was the 18th Lord of Bara, (Achmar says, the 36th,) he wrote in the time of Queen Anne. From the antiquity of this great family, Toland argues, that the famous Hyperborean Philosopher of the Greeks, from his habit and manners, must have been a Celtic Druid, and a native of our western isles, and that the islands of Sky, Lewis, and Uist, (once joined together), was the Hyperborean island; he further illustrates this, by explaining the word Borr, which signifies great, magnificent, chief, &c.

The island of Bara lies at the south point of Uist, and signifies a point or top: The difficulty of setting Macniel on horseback, with all his grandeur, gave rise to this saying.

(c) Like, “Fair words butter no parsnips.”


[TD 14]

<gai>10 Cha’n fhaodar a bho’ reic is a bain òl.
Cha chuirear gad air gealladh.
Cha robh duine riamh gun da laeth.

Chàn ’eil fealladh ann, is mo no ’n gealladh gun a cho-ghealladh.
Cha teid fèich air beul duinte.
15 Cuiridh an teangaidh snaim, nach fuasgail an fhiacail.
Cha ghiulain soitheach ach a làn.
Cha’n ann leis a chèud bhuill’ a thuitis a chraobh.
Cha d’ èug duine riamh gun dilibich.
Cha robh caraid riamh aig duine bochd.
20 Cluinnidh ’m boghar fuaim an airgiod.
Cha’n fhearr fèud no luach.
Cha dean croidh miósgach brèug.
Co b’ fhearr a b’ aithn’ an cat a thoirt as a mhuigh no ’m fear a chuir ann e? (d)
Cha ’n ann air chnothan falamh a tha sud uile.
25 Cha d’ fhuiling fuachd nach d’ fhuair teas.
Cha robh sgeulach nach robh breugach.
Cha tig a nuas an ni nach ’eil shuas.
Cha’ n ’eil ann do shean amadan.
Cha ’n uailse duine no cheird.
30 Cha ’n fhiach sagart gun chlèireach.
Cha d’ mheall e ach na dh’ earb as.
Cha truath cù is marag ma amhaich.

Cuiridh an-beart as gu lom, do dhuine ’s gun a chonn fo’ chèil, is cuiridh beart eil’ e ann, ach a gabhaìl na h-am fèin.
Cha ’n ’eil e pisearlach.
35 Cha mhair an seannach re shìr rith.
Cha deach car do theaghair ma phreas. (e)


<eng>(d) Analagous to “He who hides best, finds best.”


10 We cannot sell our cow and drink her milk.
A promise is not a hand-cuff.
Every man has two days, i. e. a day of prosperity, and a day of adversity.
There is no greater treachery, than to promise without performing.
The close mouth incurs no scores.
15 The tongue may cast a knot, which the teeth cannot untie.
A vessel will carry no more than its full.
It is not by the first stroke that the tree is felled.
The rich man never died without an heir.
The poor man has no friend.
20 The deaf will hear the chink of money.
A jewel is no better than its worth.
The drunken soul speaks out the truth.
Who knows better how to take the cat cut of the churn, than he who put her in? (d)
It is not from empty nuts all this comes.
25 None ever suffered cold but got into heat.
He who tells many tales must tells some lies.
What is not butt, will not be brought benn.
No fool like an old fool.
No man is more gentle than his trade.
30 What is a priest without a clerk.
He deceived only those who trusted him.
The dog is not to be pitied who has a sausage about his neck.
A bad step will undo the man who is not aware, and another will replace him again, if taken in proper time.
He is no conjurerer.
35 The fox cannot hold out a chace forever.
Your tether has not turned round a bush. (e)


(e) Said commonly of a man who looks well, as much as to say, he has not been disappointed of his victuals.


[TD 15]

<gai>Cha ’n eil ann ach na h-uil’ uan na ’s duibh na mhathair.
Cha tig an cota glas co math do na h-uile fear. (f)
Cha d’ thainig ubh mor riamh o’n dreathain.
40 Cha dean mi da chliamhain do m’ aon inghinn.
Cha ’n ’eil tuil air nach tig traogha (tràigh).
Cha dean tuirse ach truaghan, ’s cha ’n fhaigh fear an lag mhiosnaich bean ghlic gu la luan.
Cha ruig am beagan fuilt air cùl a chinn ’s air clar na h-aodain.
Cha b’ uail gun fhèum e.

45 Cha ghruagaichibh g’a leir air am bi ’m falt fein. (g)
Cumaidh a mhuc a foil fhèin glan.
Co dhiubh ’n strath no ’n gleann ’sann as a ceann a bhlighear a bho. (h)
Cha ’n ’eil ach rabha gun fhuasgal ann am bruadar na h-oidhche.
Cnuasach uirceain, buain is ithe.
50 Cial a dh’ fhadas teine, Rian a chumas baile, cha mhair sliochd fir foilleadh, no iochd math chum na cloinne.
Cha da thaisg nach d’ imir.
Cha robh dias fada teine nach do las eatorra.
Cha n aithne dhuit dol air t-each gun dol thairis. (i)
Cha bhi dùchas aig mnai no aig sagart.
55 Cha dean sinn’ oran deth.
Cha d’ chuir a ghual ris, nach do chuir tuar thairis.
Cha dean bodach breug ’s a chlann a ’s tigh.
Cha toill iartas achmhasan.


<eng>(f) King James the Vth’s wearing a grey coat when in disguise, might probably give rise to this saying; he often travelled through his dominions to know the manners of his subjects, whereby he discovered many things which most sovereigns are ignorant of; he was a severe justiciary, punishing the guilty and rewarding merit; he granted many charters to honest indigent people in different parts of the kingdom.


Every lamb is blacker than its mother.

The grey coat becomes not every man alike. (f)
The wren never laid a large egg.
40 I cannot make out two sons-in-law from one daughter.
There is no flood without an ebb.
None but the simple despair, and the faint-hearted can never obtain the favour of a wise woman.
A few hairs will not cover the whole head.

What is necessary, cannot be said to proceed from vanity.
45 All are not virgins who wear their own hair. (g)
Even the sow will keep its own sty clean.
Whether in strath or glen, the cow’s milk comes from her chops. (h)
It is but a riddle unsolved, the dream of the night.

The pigs delight, pluck and eat.
50 Good sense makes the fire light. Good order upholds a city. The race of the false is soon extinct. Neither are they well seen to.
No man ever laid up any thing, but found a use for it.
No two ever blew fire, but it burnt between them.
You cannot mount your horse without leaping over (i).
Women and priests are natives no where.
55 We will not make a song of it.
No man put his shoulder to, but pushed it through.
The fellow will not lie before his children.
Request bears no blame.


(g) Young women in the Highlands never used to wear linen upon their heads till after they were married, or had connection with men; hence the above saying.
(h) Or, “The cow gives milk in proportion to her food.”
(i) Said of a man who over-reaches his purpose.


[TD 16]

<gai>Cha’n ’eil fios ciod an cloidheamh a bhios, san truail gus an tarraingear e.
60 Ceansaighidh na h-uile fear an droch bhean, ach am fear aig an bi i.
Cha’n ’eil greim re ghabhail a dh’ uisg no da theine. (k)
Cha bhi fuachd air ualach air fuairid an la (l)
Cha b’ ann mar fhuair Macrùsgail na mnaibh.
Cha mhist sgeul math aithris da uair
65 Cha robh math no olc riamh gun mhnai uime.

Cha’n ’eil mo theangai fo’ d’ chrios.
Cha luaith duine gu leas, no gu aimhleas.
Cha leig an leisg da deòin, duin’ air slighe chòir am feast.
Cha dean corag mhilis im, no glucam oirre càis.

70 Cha lugha uchdaich no leodhaid.
Ceist bradaig air brèugaig.
Cha’n aithnich thu ’n t-each breac mar fhaic thu e.

Ciod a b’àill leat fhaighinn ann nead an fhithich ach am fitheach fein.
Cha’n fhad uat a chuir thu’n athais.

75 Cha’n e goga nan ceann a nì ’n t-iomram.

Cha chuirin mo thuagh bheirneach ann do choile chrionaich.
Cha scal cu roimh chnaidh.
Co air bith an caoireach, ’s mis, an cneathalach.
Cha mho air e, no air sean each athair.
80 Cha lugha air Dìa deir ’n la no thoisich.

Co sgith dheth ’s a bha’n losgann riamh do na chliath chliat.’


<eng>(l) Equal to the proverb. “Fire and water are good servants, but bad masters.”


It is not known what sword is in the sheath, until it be drawn.
60 Every man can manage an ill wife, but he who has her.

No hold can be taken of water or of fire. (k)
The proud despise to seem cold, on the coldest day.
I did not get it as Macrusgal got the women. (l)
A good tale is not the worse of being twice told.
65 There never was good or ill without a woman concerned.
My tongue is not under your girdle.
Man goes not faster to his good than to his ill.
Laziness will scarce ever permit a man to do a good turn.
Sweet finger will never make butter, neither will a glutton make cheese.
70 Up hill is no longer than down hill.
“Ask Jock Thief if I be a liar.”
You cannot know a pye balled horse, unless you see him.
What could you expect to find in the raven’s nest, but a raven.
You have not put the reproach far from your own door.
75 It is not the nodding of heads that makes the boat row.
I would not put my chopped ax in their rotten wood.

A dog howls not when struck with a bone.
Whoever is guilty, I am the sufferer.
He is no more to him than his father to an old horse.
80 Not less to God is the end, than the beginning of the day.
As glad to be rid of it, as the toad of the harrow.


(l) When one asketh a compliment of any thing he had a desire for, he is answered as above, meaning that he did not get it for nothing, as Macrusgal got the women.


[TD 17]

<gai>Cuid an t-searraich do na chliatha. (m)
Cha ’n ionan tagradh do dhuine, faighinn mna ’s ga trèige. (n)
Cha’n ’eil deathach an tigh na h-uisiaig.
85 Ceannaich mar t-fhèum, is reic mar t àillis. (o)
Cha’n e cheannach a roinn e.
Cha leannan oisich i.
Chi dithis barrachd air aon fhear (tuille.)
Cha ’neil a dh’ uail air an t-sid’ ach am fear a dh’ fhaodas a cheannach.

90 Cha robh thu riamh gun do bhiadh ’sa mhuilinn.
Cha’ n’ eil ann ach bo mhaol oghar, is bo oghar mhaol. (p)
Comhairle caraid gun a h-iarruidh, cha d’ fhuair i riamh meas bu choir dhi.
Cha’ saothair bo laoigh do shaothair, no deadh ghamhnaich.
Cha robh thu stigh nar cha chiall a roinn.
95 Cha’n fhiach duine gun neart gun innleachd.
Cha’ tuit caoireag a cliabh falamh.
Co mhear re ceann siamain re la gaoithe.
Cha sean do m’ shean, ’s cha’n og do m’ oig thu. (q)

Chan fhacas riamh a mhuc gun deiphir oirre (drip.)
100 Cha’ n’eil re dheanamh air an dàn, ach an comhradh charamh gu caoin.
Cha tuig an sàthach an seang, ’smairg a bhiodh na thràil do bhroinn.
Coram na Feine dhoibh. (r)

Cha ruig fuachd argiod aimbeart (iomairt).


<eng>(m) Meaning a person doing nothing, as the foal only accompanies its mother while working.
(n) “Mony a bra word at marriage-making.”
(o) Oportet patrem familias esse vendacem non emacem. Cato.


But the foal’s share of the draught. (m)
There is a wide difference betwixt a man’s stile at courting a wife, and forsaking her. (n)
There is no smoak in the lark’s house.
85 Buy only what you need, but sell what you please. (o)
He bought it not, i. e. He has it of kind.
She is not a fool’s choice.
Two sees more than one.
Rich dress ennobles no man, since it is equally the slave of every one whom chance has enabled to purchase it.
90 You was never without your corn at the miln.
It is but a cow without horns that is dun, and a dun cow without horns. (p)
A friend’s advice unasked is undervalued.

Your journey is not like that of a cow with calf.

You was not at home when wisdom was dealt out.
95 He is little worth, who has neither force nor art.
Nothing can fall from an empty basket.
As wanton as a straw rope’s end in a windy day.
You are neither old with my old, nor young with my young (q).
You never see a sow but in a hurry.
100 There is nothing done in rhyme, but using speech that’s sweet and choice.
The fed understands not the state of the hungry; woe to him that is a slave to his belly.
May they be matched with the Feine, or tribes of Fingal. (r)
The poor man’s money does not take cold.


(p) Said when a person thinks himself more unfortunate than his neighbour.
(q) i. e. As you are none of my relations, I have no business with you.
(r) i. e. To give them fair play, as Fingal’s men gave each other.


[TD 18]

<gai>Cha bhuidheach gach ro dhìlis, ’s mairg a threabhas air aon dìlis.
105 Cha bhi mian dithis air aon leistir (bord).

Cha bhi nair aig caol gortach.
Cha’n fhacas riamh meaghairn mhor, nach robh na dhèidh dubh-bhròn.
Cha chroider fear fial gu’s an ruigear a chùl.

Cuidich fein leat, is cuidichidh Dia leat.
110 Cha deanar leas caraid gun saothair.
Cha mhac an ait an athar thu.
Caitheadh criontaig air a cualaig.

Cleas gileadh nan cual, cual bheag is tidhinn tric.
Cha d’ chuir Fionn riamh blàr gun chumhadh.

115 Cha daor am biadh ma gheabhar e.
Cha ghille mar umhailt.
Cha bheir gad air aireachas.
Cha d’ thèid anam a mac bodaich le mùsuig.
Cha tig fuachd gu h-earrach, cruas no droch ceannach.
120 Cha robh so, riamh gun mhàoidh.
’S fearr a mhaoidh no dhìbire.
Cha chìn barag air cuid cait.
Cha’ n’eil agams, ach osan gearr dheth, ach tha triubhas fad agad dheth.
Cha do chuir Dia riamh beul chum an t saoghail, gun a chuid ma chomhair.
Cogar na bann-ghrudair.
125 Chailleadh tu do chluasan mar bhiodh iad ceangailt riut.
Cum an fhèil air an laeth.
Cha’n ’eil uail an aghaidh na tairbhe.
Cha luath a scuireas an tinn diot, no thoisichis an tachas ort.
Cha deanar beanas tighe air na fraitheamh falamh.


<eng>Every relation is not a friend; unhappy is he whose trust is in his relations.
105 Two persons find not their favourite dish at the same table.
The needy must not be bashful.
There is seldom much joy, without some grief at hand.
It is not believed the liberal can be drained till his pocket is turned inside out.
Do your best, and God will help.
110 The service of a friend is not done without trouble.
You’ll never fill your father’s footsteps.
The meanly parsimonious spends his means without satisfaction.
The carriers motto, Little at a time, and often.
Fingal never gave battle without having cause to lament.
115 Victuals are never dear, if to be had.
He is not a servant that will not obey.
One may repent, but he cannot recall.
Threats never kill.
Cold and dearth come not till spring.

120 If you have, it will be grudged.
Better grudged, than not had.
There will rise no cream on the cat’s milk dish.
I have but short hose of the web, but you have long trousers of it.
God never sent the mouth without the meat.

The ale-wife’s whisper soon turns loud.
125 You would lose your ears, if they were not fixed to your head.
Keep the fair on the fair day.
Pride does not spurn profit.
No sooner sickness leaves you, than itching attacks you.
It is hard to make good house-keeping from empty presses.


[TD 19]

<gai>130 Cnaidh mor do dhuine gionaich.
Cha deach ceann fir math tighe riamh air an otrach (aoilich.)
Cha suaitheantas corr air cladach.
Céad na caillich d’ an laogh mhear.
Cha’n ’eil tuile feum ann gliocas an duìne bhochd, no caisteal am fàsaich.
135 Cha’n ’eil di-cuimhne ann, is boich’ no ’n di-chuimhne ghlèighteach.
Cha’ n’eil airc ann gu airc na h-áinis.
Cha chuir thusa toll, nach cuir mise tarag.
Cha’n e mhèad a bhuaicheas, is cha’n e ghile ghràdhaichis.
Cha ghileadh ghradhaicheas, cha bhuidh bhuaighicheas.
Cailear bo an droch mhuthaich, a seachd bliadhna roimh mhighich.
140 Cha tabhair duine rath air eigin, ’s gheibhear e gun eigini dir.
Cha deanar buanachd gun chall;
Cha ghlè an dall an rathad mor.
Clach an ait an uibh, is,
Corc an ionad cuinnsiair.
145 Cha ’n ’eil ann ach comhad a gheoidh bhric is a mhathar.
Cha ’n e sealbh na feadalach a faotain.

Cha ’n ionadh duine dall a dhol le h-ald no le craig, Ach fear do ’n aithne a choir, is nach dean do dheòin ach ro bheag.
Cha ’n ’eil do dhuine sona ach a bhreith, is biodh duine dona na lom rith.
Ceann goimh air madain earraich is mairg a chailleadh a choamh cahraid.
150 Ceann goimh air madain earraich; is ceann coin air mada balaich (mac na caillich).


<eng>130 The great bone to the greedy man.
The head of a good landlord was never laid in the dirt.
It is no wonder to see the heron at the water side.
Quitting hold, as the old wife did the wanton calf.
The wisdom of the poor man is like a palace in a desert.
135 No forgetfulness is more commendable than a careful laying up.
No poverty like entire want.
You shall not bore a hole, but I’ll find a nail for it.
Bulk is not beauty, nor white the most lovely.

Yellow is not the most victorious.

The ill herded cow is lost seven years before the time.
140 A man cannot force good luck, but will meet with it unforced.
There is no gain without loss;
Neither can the blind make his way without a leader.
A stone in place of an egg and a knife in place of a sword.
145 It is but the comparison of the spotted goose and its mother.
The luck of a treasure, does not always consist in the getting of it.
It is no wonder to see the blind fall over a rock, or into a river, but woe to him who follows not the right when his eyes are open.
A lucky man needs only to be born, but the naughty struggles in vain.
Woe to him who would lose his friend for the stormy appearance of a spring morning.
150 A spring morning has a surly beginning, and the appearance of a fool is like a mastiff.


[TD 20]

<gai>Cha ’n ’eil ann ach fear re caomhna ’s fear re caithe.
Cho teomadh re Coibhi Druidh.
Cha d’ fhuair Conan riamh dorn gun dorn a thoirt g’a cheann. (r)
Cha bhi tom no tulaich,
No cnocan buidhe fèurach;
Nach bi seal g’a subhach,
Is seal ga dubhach dèurach.
155 Cinnidh a chriantachd ’s theid an ro-chriontachd a dholaidh.
Cha tig air a choluin nach fhaodar fhuiling.

Cha d’ dhùin doras nach d’ fhosgail doras da.
Cha bhi mo ruin g’a m’ losga.
Cairdeas Chonain ris na deonabh.
160 Cha bhi cuimhne air a mhath a bha, ach cuimhneachar gu brath, a math a bhios.
Cha bhinn teanga leam leat,
Cha bhiodhain la uat, is la agad,

Cha ruigin grinneal mo ghraidh,
’S cha chagainin cùl mo chompaniach,
Clacha dubh an aghaidh sruthabh.
Cha’n fhaigh fear mabaidh mobh.

Cleachd a nì teomadh.
165 Cordadh a rèabas lagh.
Ceilichidh seirc aineamh.
Comhaltas gu cèud, is càirdeas gu fichid.

Comhalt nach dearbh ait, ’s mairg a dh’ àraich duine riamh.


<eng>(r) Conan was under a vow not to receive a blow from any without returning the compliment, which obliged him to


There is but one man gathering and another spending.
As dextrous as the Arch Druid.
Conan never got a stroke but he returned a stroke. (r)

There is no place whatever, without its share of mirth and woe.

155 The saving will increase his store, but the too saving will destroy it.
Nothing will come on your carcase that you may not bear.
No door ever shut, but another door opened.
I will not suffer my desire to burn me.
The kindness of Conan to the devils.
160 No one minds the good that was, but every one minds what is to come.
I would not be of a deceitful tongue,
I will not be one day for you, and another against you;
Neither would I torment my love,
Nor would I backbite my companion.
Striving against the stream.
He who has an impediment in his speech, will not be respected.
Practice makes perfection.
165 Concord bereaves the law.
Charity concealeth faults.
The relation of fostering connects with a hundred, that of blood only to twenty.
Woe to him who trains up a foster son, who standeth not his part.


fight the devils, i. e. to give them as bad as they brought, or stroke about.


[TD 21]

<gai>’S caomh le fear a charaid, ach ’s e smior a chroidh a chomhalt. (s)
170 Cha bhi donas toirteach (dòrtach).
Chaillear na b’ fhearr leam, ’s cha b’ fhearr beo e.

Cha chinn feur air an rathad mhor;
No coineach air a chloich a bhios g’a sìr ghluaise.
Cha chreid thu’ n t-aog gu’s am faic thu’ n t-adhlac.
175 Chuala mi chuag gun bhiadh am bhroinn; chunnaic mi ’n searrach is a chul rium; chunnaic mi ’n t-seilchog air an lic luim; dh’ ’ainich mi nach rachadh a bhliadhn’ ud leam. (t)
Cha d’ theid plàsd air bagairt.
Cha ’n ’eil maith gun mhileadh.
Cha d’ òil an sagart ach na bh’ aige.
Cha bhi báil air aran fuint’, no air fodar buailt’.

180 Cha d’ thainig èun glan riamh a’ neid a chlamhain.
Cha d’ thug leis an truail, nach d’fhuair leis a chloidheamh.
Cha d’ thug sàr nach d’ fhuailing sàr.
Cha ’n ’eil ann n’as measa no deire ghreinein chorc * (siolman).
Cha ’n oil leam cneid mo leas mhathair.
185 Cha tabhair thu ’n aire gus an d’ theid am bior ’san t-sùil.
Cha chuir e neach air bith air falbh le croidh goirt.
Cho chuimseach lamh re Conloch.
Cha ’n iad na ro chleirich is fearr.
Cha bhi luathas agus grinneas.
190 Cha ’n ’eil eidir an t amadan ’s an duine glic, ach tairgse mhaith ghabhail nar gheibh e i.


<eng>(s) These proverbs express a peculiarity of manners in the Highlands of Scotland; chieftains in Scotland were in use to foster their heir with poor people that had a promising son, who would be a fast friend to the young chieftain at all times.


A man’s kinsman is dear, but his foster brother is a part of his heart. (s)
170 The sorry fellow is never ready to give.
I have lost whom I would have preserved, but who would not have been better alive.
Grass cannot grow on the high way;
Neither will a rolling stone gather moss.
You will not believe death till you see the burial.
175 I have heard the cuckow with a fasting stomach; I have seen the foal from behind; I have seen the snail upon the bare stone; I knew that the year was not to be favourable. (t)
No plaister is applied to a threat.
There is no good that may not be marred.
The priest drank no more than he had.
Bread when baked, and straw when threshed, are little spared.
180 A clean bird comes not from the kite’s nest.
They never provoked with the scabbard, who did not receive with the sword.
None gives provocation but gets with a return.
No refuse is worse than that of the corn pickle *.

I pity not the sigh of my step-mother.
185 Ye do not take heed till the prick is in the eye.

He will let none go with a sorrowful heart.
As unerring as the hand of Conloch.
The greatest clerk is not the wisest man.
Good and quickly seldom meet.
190 There is no difference between a wise man and a fool, but take the good when it is offered.


(t) These are bad omens among the superstitious; many ridiculous observations, still held by them, had their rise in time of Heathenism; those who cannot otherwise account for them, father them upon the Roman Catholics.
* Said of mean gentry.


[TD 22]

<gai>Cha ’n ann do n’ ghuin an gàire.
Cha tuig oig aimbeart, ’s cha tuig amadan aimhleas.
Cha bhi uail gun dragh, a’s cha bhi sin dragh ris.

Cha ’n ’eil eidir duin’ is tuile fhaotain, ach na th’ aig a chaitheadh.
195 Cuir ceann na muic re tar an uircean.
Cha ’n ionan iùl do dhithis, no shlighe do thrùir.

Coidhlidh duin’ air gach cneadh, ach a chneadh fein.
Cloidheamh an laimh amadain, is slacan an laimh oisich.
Chuid nach eil air an t slinneag, tha e air a cliathaich.
200 Codal a mhuilear is an t-uisge dol seach.
Cha’n ann an uchd a mhathar a bha e.
Cha chuir e bhuinig air a bhrògan.
Cha cheil ceàraich a dhìsten.
Cha’n olc a chreach as an gleithear a leath.

205 C’àit am biodh na puirt, nach faidheadh na clàrsairin iad.
Cha dean cas laidir nach ith bru mhor.

Cha dean aon smeorach samhra.
Cha d’ thilg le ’ leath laimh, nach do thionail le dha laimh.
Ciod is misd duin’ a chreach’, mar lughaid a phor e?
210 Chuir e bhàt air acar.
Cha d’ fhag e clach gun tionda.
Co eolach ’s a tha ’n ladar air a phoit.
Cha’n e mo charaid a ni m’ aimheas.
Cleamhnas am fogasg is goisdeachd am fad.
215 Cha d’ rinn theab riamh sealg.
Ceist an fhithich air an fhionaig.
Cha bhi braithreachas gu mnai no gu fearann.
Cha’n abair mi mo bhrathair, ach ris a’mhac a rugadh o m’ mhathair.
Cha bhi seasamh aig droch bheart.


<eng>Smiles are not companions of pain.
The young do not foresee want, nor fools danger.
Pride has its trouble, and we will not be troubled with it.
Nothing hinders a man from getting more, but the spendmg of what he has.
195 Set the sow’s head to the pig’s tail.
Two are not of one mind, neither are their geniuses alike.
A man will sleep upon every disaster except his own.
A sword in the band of a fool, and a staff in a foolish woman’s.
What does not cover the shoulders may cover the ribs.
200 As the miller sleeps while the water goes past.
He was not in the arms of his mother.
It will not put a sole on his shoe.
A dextrous gamester will not conceal his dice.
The plunder is not so bad, from which the half is recovered.
205 Where was the music, that the harpers could not find it.
The strong foot will not find more than the big belly will devour.
One swallow will not make summer.
They never threw away with one hand, who had not occasion to gather with both.
What harm in the robbery, if we are not the poorer?
210 He has brought his boat to an anchor.
He left no stone unturned.
As intimate as the pot and the ladle.
He is not my friend who does me harm.
Marriage at hand,, and gossipping afar off.
215 Almost never killed the game.
The raven’s appeal to the crow.
There is no copartnery in women or land.
I shall not call him my brother, but a son born of my mother.
There is no stability in evil deeds.


[TD 23]

<gai>220 Cha d’ thèid an seannach na ’s faide na bheir a chasan e.
Cha’ n’eil beart an aghaidh na h èigin.
Cha’n fhiach sgeul gun urrain.
Cha toir a bho do ’n laogh ach na th’ aice.
Cha bhrios mallachd cnaidh.
225 Cha lian beannachd brù.
Cha d’ fhuair neach riamh a thuarasdal, gus na choisin e, e.
Cinnidh mac o mhi altram, ach cha chinn e o’n aog.

Cha d’ òrdaich Dia do ’n duine bhochd an da la cho olc.
Cha mheall an t uisg a chroich.
230 Cha d’ shaltair neach air a phiosach.
Cha chaoir muc sheasg àl.
Cha robh bru mhor riamh na seis ’maith do neach eile.
Cha’n uradh mi ulag ith’ is an tein a shèid.
Cosmhuil re mo sheana bhrògan, sìr dhol a meas.
235 Cha’n fhacas air neach eile, nach bu choir dhuinn’ a ghabhail thugain fèin.
Cha duine glic theid gu tric na bhail mhor.

Cha chòir an t-each glan a chuir thuige.
Cha’n ’eil an cuid ’s an onair aca.
Cha d’ theid àrdan na ’m ban fo ’n ùir.
240 Cha mhist cùil ghlan a rannsachadh.
Cha d’rinn uisge glan riamh leann maith.
Codal na ’n con ’sa mhuilin ’s na mhnaibh a criaradh.
Cha’n e cruadhach na atha sealltuinn fuidh.

Cha’ n’eil dearbha gun d’ fhèuchain.
245 Cha sasamh a bhreug ach air leath-chois.
Cum do chu re leagadh.
Cha lugha na foill no na freacadain.
Chad’ fhuair scathadh nach d’ fhuiling nàire


<eng>220 The fox will run no farther than his feet will carry him.
There is no fence against necessity.
A tale that is not vouched, is not to be minded.
The cow will not give to the calf but what she has.
Curses break no bones.
225 Blessings do not fill the belly.
No man gets his wages till he earn it.

A child may grow under bad nursing, but cannot escape death.
God never ordered the poor man to have two days alike ill.
The water cannot bereave the gibbet.
230 None ever prevented his fate.
A barren sow is never kind to pigs.
The big belly was never liberal to others.

I cannot swallow meal while I blow the fire.
Like my old shoes, always growing worse.
235 We never saw befall another, what we may not expect may befall ourselves.
He is not a wise man that goes too often to the hall.
It is not fit to drive the willing horse.
They have not got their means and honour too.
The pride of a woman will not be smothered.
240 A clean corner is not the worse of being searched.
Pure water does not become ale.
The sleep of the dog in the mill when the women sifts meal.
What makes the kiln dry the corn, is not looking below it.
There is no certainty without trial.
245 A lie standeth but upon one leg.
Keep up your dog till the game starts.
The enemies are no fewer than the guard.
They never met with loss, who did not suffer blame.


[TD 24]

<gai>Tha’ n an-shocair is an t an-fhocal aige.
250 Cnuasach na crainiaig.
Cha’n ann gun fhios c’ar son a ni ’n clamhan féid.
Cuir innt’ a’s cuiridh ’n saoghal uimpe. (w)
Cho mhaith ’s fhiach a meirleach a chroich.
Cha dubhairt Dia na thuirt thu.
255 Cha’n fhac thu bo do d’ chrodh fein an diu.
Cha’n ’eil e beag boidhich no mor granda.

Cha ghleidhe tu clach ’sa chladach.
Cath ceann an teallaech. (x)
Cha robh am bolg falamh riamh sàthach.
260 Cha d’ fhuair suil ghionnaich riamh cunarach maith.
Cho chorrach re ubh airh droll.
Cha d’ thig on’ mhuic ach uirciain.
Cha leig duine da dheoin a chòir le duine beo ’sam bith.
Cha teich earb le faicsin.
265 ’Chailleach an gabh thu ’n righ? “Cha ghabh, ’s nach gabh e mì.”
Cha’n fhaidh tu so, ge b, e ’n righ brathair do mhathar.
Cha robh do chuid riamh air chall.
Cho gheal re sneachd na h’ aon oiche.
Cha’ n eil ach a leath-taobh ris.
270 Cno o uachdar a mhogail.


<eng>(w) The back will trust, but the belly still will be craving.
(x) The famous Hay, who turned the chace upon the Danes, at the black battle of Luncarty, in the time of King Kenneth the Third, was brought before the king, and being asked if ever he was in a hotter battle, to which he answered, that he had a worse one every day at home, viz. “The fire-side battle,” a scolding wife, crying children, and little or nothing to give them: the king told


They have both the skaith and the scorn.
250 The store of the hedge hog.
It is not for nothing the glede whistles.

Feed, and let the world clothe. (w)
As well as the thief is worth the gallows.
God has not said what you say.
255 You have not seen a cow of your own to-day.
He is neither little nor handsome, neither ugly nor great.
You would not find a stone among the gravel.
The fire-side battle. (x)
The barren womb was never satisfied. *
260 A covetous eye never got a good pennyworth.

As tottering as an egg on a staff.
There comes not from the sow but a pig.
No man, if he can, will give his birth-right to any man alive.
A roe will not take flight for being in sight.
265 Old woman, will you marry the king? “No, for he will not marry me.”
You should not get this, if the king was your uncle.

Your share was never lost.
As white as the snow of one night.
He has but one side to the cause.
270 Take a nut from the top of the cluster.


him, that, as a reward of his valour, he would give him his choice of a hound’s race, or a hawk’s flight of ground. He chose the latter, which was let fly from Balthyock, i. e. the hawk’s town, and encompassed eight miles of the best land in Scotland, round Errol, formerly possessed by the illustrious family of Hay, descended from the brave Hay, who defeated the Danes with his yoke, which is the arms of the family. Buchan. Abercrom. &c.
* Solomon.


[TD 25]

<gai>Cha bhi ath-sgeul air an droch sgeul.
Cluinidh tu air a chluais is buidhre e.
Cha dean sinn cruit chiùil deth.
Ceart na cleire r’a cheile.
275 Cadal a chlàrsair seachd ràighin gun fhaireach.

Cha chluinn e ’n ni nach binn leis.
Cha mi thar lus.
Cha ’n ’eil doras gun laib, is cuid aig am bheil a dha.
Cha tuit guidhe air clach no air crann.
280 Cha ’n fhaighear an diu air ais an dè.
Chuir iad am balgansuain fo cheann. (y)
Cinnidh scuit saor am fineadh.
Mar breug an fhàisdin.
Far am faighear an lia fàil,
Dlighe flaitheas do ghabhail. (z)
Cha d’ thugadh i dèirc do ’n dall air muin a chrùbaich.
Cha ’n ’eil fèil no faighidhir air nach faighir Maol Ruanaidh. (aa)
285 Cha bu laogh air bheul-thaobh maosaig e. (bb)

Cha d’ theid e timchiol a phris leis.
Cha chreach e dùthaich.
Cha d’ thig a saoghach le goc, ach an deoch a bhios ann.
Ciod a dh’ iarradh tu air bo ach gnòsd?


<eng>(y) The changes a caterpillar undergoes till it becomes a butterfly are well known. The above proverb, said of a person who indulges himself in too much sleep, alludes to the quiescent state of that animal, when it is inclosed in something like a bag, here called the sleepy bag.
(z) The prophesy of the Scots marble chair carried from Scoon by Edward Longshanks to Westminster.
I never remember to have heard the word Scot in the Gaelic language, except in these lines; it must there-


Ill news will not bear twice telling.
You will hear it in the deafest ear.
We need not make a sounding harp of it.
The redress which the clergy give against each other.
275 The sleep of the harper, a year and three quarters without wakening.
He hears not what he likes not.
I stepped over a weed.
There is no door without a puddle, and some have two
Curses fall not upon stones or sticks.
280 You cannot to-day recall yesterday.
They have put the sleepy bag below his head. (y)
The Scots shall brook that realm as native ground,
If weirds fail not where’er this chair is found. (z)
Ni falat fatum, Scoti quocunque locatum,
Invenient lapidem regnare ibidem.
She would not give alms to the blind on the cripple’s back.
There is neither market nor fair, but Maolruani will be there. (aa)
285 Her child will not be like a calf before a heifer when it comes. (bb)
He would not go about the bush with it.
He will not plunder a country.
There comes not from a bad cask, but such drink as is there.
What could you expect from a cow, but her low?


fore be a name given us by strangers, probably in opprobrium. If allowed to be Gaelic, it would appear to come from the word <gai>Scòd,<eng> i. e. pride, the English generally giving the people of Scotland the epithet of proud. Boeth. Buch. Abercrom. Keating’s Hist. of Ir. Toland, &c.
(aa) A nick-name for a foolish woman who frequents fair and other diversions too much.
(bb) Said of an old maid when got married.


[TD 26]

<gai>290 Cha’n fhaighir maith gun dragh.
Cha b’ e ’n cu ma chnaidh e.
Cha’n fhuiling an onair clùd.
Cha teich ach claghair, is cha’n fhuirich ach sèipeir.

CUMADH an TRIUBHAIS.
Cromadh gun ghainne ’sa chaol; aon eanga deug san osan; seachd eang am beul a theach; is tearc neach do nach foghainn; air a chuma’ gu dìrich; agus a tri na ghobhal *.
295 Cluich a chuilein ris a mhial-chu.
Cha d’ ith na coin an aimsir.
Croidh circ an gob na h airc.
Co iocar re luch fo chasan a chait.
Cha’n iongna gangaid àidh a dhol an t sliabh,
Ach is iongna, ath-bhean tighe bhi gun chial.
300 Cha choisin balbhan earasaid, is cha’n fhaidh amadan oighreachd.
Cha bhi Tòisich air Tirìnidh, is cha bhi Tirìnidh gun Tòisich. (cc)


<eng>* Perhaps some of these nails should be doubled.
(cc) A ridiculous prophesy, concerning an ancient family in Perthshire, now extinct; the tragical story of their being killed by the Cummings, may not, perhaps, be unentertaining to the reader.
About the beginning of the fourteenth century, great animosities had arisen betwixt this family and that of the Earl of Badenoch and Athole, which was said to have been occasioned by the Earl’s lady, who is reported to have had a most voracious appetite; to gratify which, she was under the necessity of oppressing her tenants to an extreme degree. It is said that she devoured a choppin of marrow every day, besides a profusion of other dainties. By extravagancies of this kind, she so far reduced her estate, that her tenants were no longer able either to pay their rent, or till the ground; thus situated, she was obliged to have recourse to her more wealthy neighbours, by soliciting pre-


290 We obtain no good without trouble.
He is not a dog at his bone.
Honesty will not endure patching.
None but a coward will fly, none but a sneaking fellow will stay.

The SHAPE of the TROUSE.
Two full nails to the small of the leg; eleven from the haunch to the heel; seven nails round the band, there are few to which it will not answer well shap’d all over; and three nails to the breech *.
295 The play of the puppy with the greyhound.
The dogs have not eaten the weather.
The heart of a hen in the mouth of poverty.
As submissive as a mouse under the paw of the cat.
No wonder to see a naughty woman fall, but it is unseemly to see the mistress of a house play the fool.
300 The dumb person wins not the cloak with fair speeches, nor the ideot secure an inheritance.
Tirinie will never be without a Macintosh, neither will there ever be a Macintosh of Tirinie. (cc)


sents from them, which, to this day, in Scotland goes under the denomination of thigging.

After ranging the country in search of presents, she was giving an account to the Earl of her success among her friends, and that the great Macintosh of Tirinie had given her twelve cows and a bull.

This piece of generosity, instead of making him thankful for such a valuable present, only tended to excite his envy at the opulence of his neighbour; he dreaded his greatness, and from thenceforth devised his destruction; to facilitate which, he gave out that that gentleman had been too familiar with his lady; this he thought was a specious pretext, and a sufficient ground of quarrel, and only waited a favourable opportunity for executing his design, which he soon accomplished; he surrounded Macintosh’s castle of Tomafuir, a short mile from his own castle of Blair Athole, in the silent hour of midnight, and most cruelly massacred the


[TD 27]

<gai>Cha do threig Fion riamh caraid a laimh dheas.
Cha bhi ’m bochd sòghar saibhir.


<eng>whole family in their beds; this done, he seized upon his possessions, which, except his own, were the most extensive in that country.

Near Macintosh’s place lived an old man, who held a small piece of land of him, for which he only paid a bonnet yearly, and always got his master’s old one in return; for this reason, it is still called the Bonnet Croft, and the tenant was called the Big Stone Carle, because he built his house beside a large stone, which served as a side or gable to it.

This man was the first that entered his master’s house after the murder; shocked at the sight, and overwhelmed with grief for the loss of his benefactor, in vain he examined their dead bodies, to try if there was any remains of life: At last he turned up the cradle where an infant lay, of the name of Owen, and, to his no small joy and surprize, found him alive, covered with sweat, and almost crushed to death with the weight of the cradle and cloaths; he carried away the chi d privately to his nearest relation by the mother’s side, Campbell of Achnabreck, in Argyleshire. The old man who carried him thither had a watchful eye over him, and came often to see him; but, on account of the greatness of the Cummings every where in Scotland, it was thought prudent to conceal his birth for some time: At length he grew up to manhood, was a very promising youth, and an excellent bowman, which made his aged conductor entertain hopes of his being, some time or other, able to revenge the massacre of his family. Coming one time to see him, and perceiving his dexterity at hitting the mark, it gave him great pleasure; he now thought the boy fully qualified for taking the field against his enemy; “The grey breast of the man who killed your father, is much broader,” says he; and, with all the feeling of a faithful servant and dependent on the family, informed him of his birth, &c. The youth listened with the utmost concern, and feeling deeply for the treatment of his parents, could not refrain from bursting into tears, and implicitly gave himself up to the


Fingal never deserted the friend of his right hand.
The poor inclined to luxury, will never be happy.


direction of his guardian. Being impatient for the recovery of his birthright, and the punishment of the perpetrators of the massacre, he, in conjunction with his venerable friend, solicited his relations for a select band of warriors to recover his possession, which was readily granted. Accordingly, thirty men well armed were raised, who immediately set out, and arrived at his own castle, where they remained till he got intelligence from his nurse. Calling at her house late in the night, she was diffident of admitting him, until he breathed through the key hole of her door, that she might be sure he was no impostor: and being told that his adversary, with his train, were making merry at a house just opposite, he divided his small army into two divisions, one of which was posted betwixt Cumming and his castle; and the other, commanded by Owen and the old man, went to attack him. Cumming fled to his castle, where he was met by the other division, who saluted him with a shower of arrows, at which he was forced to fly up a narrow valley, called Glen Tilt, hotly pursued; one of his men blowing his nose, got it shot off at a small brook called <gai>Aldan Sroin an duine,<eng> i. e. The nose man’s brook; another man being shot through the belly, at a brook called <gai>Ald na marag,<eng> i. e. The pudding brook, because his entrails came out.

Owen took a near cut round a hill, and got before Cumming, where he waited for his coming up. The old man at his approach (Cumming’s), who by this time was only accompanied by two men, said “There comes the great Cumming the murderer of your family; if you let him escape, you will certainly fall by my hands;” at which Owen drew an arrow, and nailed Cumming’s hand to his head as he was wiping the sweat off his face, from the other side of a small lake called Loch-loch, where a cairn was raised to his memory, still called Cumming’s Cairn.

Whether the above happened before or after the war betwixt the Cummings and Macintoshes in the north, I cannot exactly determine;  but much about that time, a


[TD 28]

<gai>Cha ’n ’eil cleith air an olc, ach gun a dheanamh.
305 Cha ’n ’eil saoigh gun choi’meas.
Cnoic, is uisg’, is Ailpeinich. (dd)


<eng>desperate battle was fought betwixt the two clans at <gai>Leac na Maigh,<eng> near Moy, not far from Inverness, where the Cummings were defeated with great slaughter. This did not, however, end the quarrel. As Macintosh on his way home passed through a wood, his servants (who had gone a considerable way before their master), wee found hung up upon the trees at the way side when their chief came up. At last Cumming of Rait pretended to make peace; and, with an intention to destroy the whole clan, he invited Macintosh with his followers to a feast. Macintosh was to be placed at the head of the table, and Cumming himself was to be at his right hand; the rest of the clans were to be seated in the same manner, i. e. a Cumming on a Macintosh’s right hand, from the chief down to the lowest man, as a particular mark of the friendship now commenced between them; a bull’s head was to be brought in as a signal to the Cummings, for every man to stab his left hand neighbour, being a Macintosh. But, unluckily for Cumming, he revealed his design to a gentleman who was a well-wisher to Macintosh. and for the better security took his oath to keep it secret; the gentleman, however, contrived a method to reveal it to Macintosh without breaking his oath. As they were walking in the fields, he desired Macintosh to stand on one side of a large stone that lay in their way,while he went to the other, and, in Macintosh’s hearing, told Cumming’s plot to the stone; upon which Macintosh convened his clan in all haste, who were no sooner got together, than an invitation was sent for them to the feast, and, according to the custom of the times, it was cowardly not to accept of it. Accordingly they went well prepared: Cumming met them on the way, and told them his method of entertainment, and hoped they would be so kind as to comply with it. Macintosh answered, that he would not; but, on the contrary he would give Cumming the preference, otherwise he would not enter; Cumming with some reluctance at last agreed to it: both clans seated themselves according to this last proposal; the Macintoshes


The best concealment of evil is not to commit it.
305 None so brave without his equal.
Hills, waters, and Macalpins. (dd)


had their eye constantly on the door; at last the bull’s head appeared, and the Macintoshes drew their daggers, and treated the Cummings in the same manner in which they were intended to be treated themselves.

By private quarrels of this kind, and their opposition to King Robert Bruce, that great and powerful clan were almost cut off.

I have gleaned this story from the common tradition of the country, and although it has much the appearance of a romance, yet it is founded on truth.

(dd) Meaning that the Macgregors, also called Macalpins (from King Alpin their ancestor) are as old as the hills. They are descended of Prince Gregor, third son of King Alpin, son of the celebrated Achaius, King of Scotland.

<gai>“Sliochd nan righribh dùchasach,
Bha shios ann Dun Staiphnis,
Aig an robh crun na h- Alb’ o thus,
’S aig am bheil dùchas fathasd ris.”

<eng>“Children of those native royal sires,
Who at Dunstaphnage’ ancient spires,
From first the crown of Albion bore,
Which still you love, because your fathers wore.”

They have often matched with the royal family of Scotland, and once with that of Ireland, with the families of Argyle, Breadalbin, Lindsay, Macintosh, Macdonald of Keppoch, Cameron of Locheil, Macfarlane of Macfarlane, Macarthur, &c.

There are several great clans descended of them, viz. Grants, a great and respectable clan, Macnabbs and Griersons, as also several lesser clans or sirnames, as Grieg, Gregory, Macaulay, Skinner, Goodlad, or Goodlet, Roy, Cairns, &c.


[TD 29]

<gai>D

DIONGAM fear mo dh’ fhuireas mi, agus fuìligeam teiche.
Dh’ aithnich mi gar meann a bheireadh a ghabhar.

Da thrian buine baranda.
Dleasaidh arm uram.
5 Dhuraige tu mo luath le uisg.’

Dithis a chuir cuideachd agus am buala r’a chèile.

Deire nan seachd satharn ort.
Dean do ghearain re fear gun iochd, is deir e, “Tha thu bochd.”


<eng>By their opposition to King James the Fourth (who headed a faction against his father) and insidious information of them given at court, they were forfeited till the restoration of King Charles the Second, when they were restored, but were again forfeited by King William for their adherence to the Stuart family. In this hard situation, they continued till they were again restored by act of Parliament, 1775.

During these forfeitures, they lost all their possessions, and were obliged to change their name; many of them have, since the above act, assumed their ancient name of Macgregor.

The Macnabbs, however, deny their descent from the Macgregors; but, from a bond of friendship entered into betwixt James Macgregor of that Ilk, and Lauchlan Mackinnon of Strathardle, dated at Vir, 6th June, 1571, he acknowledges to be descended of the Macgregors; and by another bond of the same nature entered into betwixt the said Mackinnon and Finlay Macnabb of Bowaine, chief of the Macnabbs, dated at Kilmorie, 12th July, 1606, both


D

IF I prove a man while I stand, you will suffer me to give up.
I knew it would be a kid that the goat would bring forth.
Two-thirds of the company must prevail in the point.
Arms procure respect.
5 You would wish to see my ashes scattered on the stream.
To bring two men together to knock them against each other.
The latter end of seven Saturdays be upon you.
Complain to a man void of compassion, and he’ll tell you, “You are poor.”


acknowledge to be descended of two brothers of old, and consequently of the Macgregors. The well known saying, <gai>“An t-Ab uaine Mac mhic Grigoir a’ Sron uaim,”<eng> i. e. the pale coloured Abbot, son of Macgregor, from Stronuaim; together with that other saying, <gai>“Cha robh balach riamh do chloinn Ghrigair, no caile do chloinn an Ab;”<eng> i. e. there never was a clown of the Macgregors, nor a mean woman of the Macnabbs,—is a proof of this assertion.

The person from whom they take that designation was Abbot, and afterwards Bishop of Dunkeld.

It would appear that the Macaulays are not of the Macgregors, as mentioned above. Buchannan of Achmar says, that they are descended of the family of Lennox, in confirmation of which, he produces several charters, whereto Aulay, the Earl’s brother, is witness; as also the said Aulay’s son and successor, designed Duncan Macaulay, i. e. Aulay’s son, knight; they were afterwards designed of Arncaple. Hist. of Macg Buch. of Achmar, Professor Ross’s Hist. of Fam. of Suther. Doug. Baron. Pitscottie. Abercrom. Scots and British acts of Parliament.


[TD 30]

<gai>Dheanadh tu teaghair do roiniaig.
10 Deire mo sgeòil mo scuidse. (a)
Dubhairt clag Scàin, an rud nach buin duit na buin da. (b)

Dean do gháradh far an d’ rinn thu t-fhuarach.
Dean na’s tige leat, is chi thu na’s ait leat.
Duine gu h-aois is bean gu bàs.
15 Dheanadh sin e, ma’n dubhairt an cu ma na chè. (c)
Dean fanoid air do shean a bhrogan.
Dleasaidh foidhidin furtachd, agus tuig thus’ mise,
Nar is tinne ’n gad cuaile ’s ann is dual dha briseadh.
Dean do shèanadh o ’n Diobhal is o chlann an tighearna. *
20 Diù na comhairle g’a toirt far nach gabhar i.

Dheanadh e rud-eigin do dh’ aon fhear ach ’s beag a chuid dithis e, mara thuirt Alastair uaireach ma’n t-saoghal. (d)
Dean cnuasach san t samhra ni ’n geamhra chuir seachad.
Deoch an dorais. (e)
Deir gach fear, ochòin! e fein.
25 Dean math air deadh dhuìne, ’s biodh deadh dhuine g’a rèir.


<eng>(a) Confess and be hanged.
(b) Scoon, the ancient residence of the kings of Scotland; the bell of Scoon, meant the law given by the King.
(c) When the dog was desired to lick cream, he asked “Why?” “Because it is spilt,” replied his mistress, “That would do it,” says the dog.
* Vide Allan Ramsay’s Scots Proverbs.
(d) Alexander the Great went to the top of a mountain to have a view of it, and said as above.
(e) Some add, <gai>Deoch Chlann Donachaidh,<eng> the Robertson’s or children of Duncan’s, drink, so called from their being descended of Duncan Crosd, a son of Macdonald of the Isles, hence the sirname of Duncan. Struan is their chief; however, this is disputed by Roberson of Lude,


You would make a tether of a hair.
10 The end of my tale will be whipping (a).
So rung the bell of Scoon, What belongs not to you, meddle not with. (b)
Warm yourself where you grew cold.
Do your endeavour, and you will find what you wish.
A man to old age, and a woman till death.
15 That would do, as the dog said of the cream. (c)
Make game of your old shoes.
Patience merits relief.
When the rope is tightest, it is readiest to break.

Pray that you may be preserved from the Devil the Laird’s bairns *.
20 The worst sort of advice is that given, where it is not received.
It would be something to one man, but it is too small for two, as Alexander the Great said of the world. (d)
Make up a store in summer that will make the winter pass.
Drink at the door; or the parting cup. (e)
Every one cries, alas! for himself.
25 Do good to a worthy man, and he will appear the more worthy.


who holds out, that he is descended of the eldest son of Robert the First, of the name of Robertson, and that Struan was only descended of the second son, though by a daughter of Macdonald of the Isles. The present Lude’s grandfather did not insist much upon that point, for which the late Struan, an elegant poet, complimented him with these beautiful lines:

Here lies the wonder of the ball,
A son of Eve, without a gall;
All Adam’s offspring had been such,
Had he not trusted Eve too much.

Doug. Baron. Struan’s Poems. Buch, of Achmar, &c.


[TD 31]

<gai>Dean math air neo-dhuine is bidhidh neo-dhuine dha fèin.
Deas-uil air gach nì. (c)
Dheanadh tu caonag re do dha lurgain.
Dean math an aghaidh ’n uilc.

E

EISD re gaoth nam beann gus an traogh na h uisgeacha.
Eafacach a muigh is brèineach a steach.
Eidir an t sùdh ’s an t slat.
Earbsa a cloidheamh brist.
5 Eidir lamh is taobh.
Eidir am feur ’s am fodar.
Eug is imrich, a chlaoidheas tigheadas.
Ealaidh gun rath.
Eidir am bogha ’s an t sreing.
30 Eidir an long nodha ’s an seann ruthadh.

Eidir leor is eatarus.
Eoin a chuir na choille.
Earrag chèilidh. (a)


<eng>(c) Or right about with the sun. An ancient custom still observed in drinking, &c.


Do good to a bad man, and he will see to himself

Take the proper course in every thing. (c)
You would quarrel with your own shins.
Do good in return for evil.

E

LISTEN to the wind of the mountains till the waters abate.
Pleasant abroad, and surly at home.
Betwixt the bark and the tree.
Trusting to a broken sword.
5 Betwixt hand and side.
Betwixt the grass and the straw.
Death and removings undo a family.
Music without luck.
Betwixt the bow and the string.
10 Let the new ship beware how she knocks heads with the old promontory.
Betwixt the two.
Send birds to the wood.
The gossipping stroke. (a)


(a) Said of one who is hurt at a visit.


[TD 32]

<gai>F

FEUDAIDH sin crois a choir san tuire.
Crois an tuire, crois an sguirre.
Far nach ionmhuin duine ’s ann is fhus’ èigneach’.

Fear urrad rium, ag iarruidh fuighil orm.
Faothacha gille ghobhain, o na h ùird gus na builg.

5 Far nach bi nì, caillidh ’n righ a chòir.
Fear falamh ’s e gu’n nì, suidh e fada sios o chàch;
Air mheud a bheus g’a ’m bi na chorp, is iomad lochd a gheibhir dha.
Fear an ime mhòir, is e is binne glòir.
Faodaidh duine chuid ithe gun a chluasan a shalacha.
Fardaidh na h-uile fear co rinn e, ach cha’n fharaid iad cia fad a bha iad ris.
10 Fhuair e car troimh a dheathaich.
Fad o ’n t suil, fad o na chroidh. (a)
Feuch an laogh blar buidh dhamh, is na feuch a chuid damh.
Feasgar dh’ ai’nichear na fir.
Faraid duin’ a ghalar.
15 Fannan do ghaoth ’n ear, leannan an t sealgair.

Fàgaidh tu e mar ga m fàgadh bo buachar.
Fear na foille ’n iochdar.
Faoigh fir gun chaoirich, is i ’s faolaidh a gheibhir.

Farmuid a ni treabhadh.
20 Fear dubh dàna, fear bàn bleideal, fear donn dualach, is fear ruadh sceigeil. (b)


<eng>(a) i. e. Out of sight out of mind.


WE may strike a hack in the post. Nay, ’tis unlucky replies the guest.
Where a man is least beloved, he is easiest overthrown.
He has as much as I, yet asks a crumb of me.
The rest of the smith’s man, from the hammer to the bellows.
5 Where nothing is, the king must lose his due.
The poor man sits far below the rich;
Be he ever so virtuous, many faults are laid to his charge.
The voice of the rich is sweetest.
A man may feed without daubing his ears.
Every one will ask who made it, but few will ask how long it was in making.
10 He has got a toss through the smoak.
Far from the eye, far from the heart. (a)
Shew me the calf white faced and sleek; you need not show me his feeding.
At night it will be known who are men.
Ask a man to tell his failings.
15 The breeze of wind from the east is the delight of the hunter.
You quit it as a cow quits her stall.
Let the knave be kept under.
He who has nothing to give, is readiest to boast of his generosity.
Competition produces exertion.
20 A black man is bold, a fair man is troublesome, a brown man is like his race, and a red man is a scorner. (b)


(b) Like “Fair and foolish, black and proud, long and lazy, little and loud.”


[TD 33]

<gai>Fhuair thu fios an eagail.
Far am bi mnaibh bidhidh giosagan,
Far am bi geoidh bidhidh iseunan.
Fear na ba fein sa pholl an toisich.
25 Feumaidh na fithich fein a bhi beo.
Far an laigh na fir ’s ann a dh’ eirighis iad.

Far nach bi na coin cha leigear iad.
Fùileach an tailiair shàthaich, làn spàin a chabhruich.
Fios fithich.
30 Far nach bi na mic-uchd, cha bhi na fir-feachd.

Faodaidh gnothach an righ, tidhinn an rathad a bhagair. (c)
Faodaidh cat sealltuinn air righ.
Feuch nach gabh do shuil e. (d)
Far nach bi na fàilinean cha bhi na cnodhan còinich.
35 Fèumaidh fear nan cuaran, eirigh uair roimh fhear nam bròg.
Fuilgidh gach beathach bhi gu math, ach mac an duine.
Far am bi deadh-dhuin’ is duin’ e cuid re cuideachd is na aonar.
Fàg cuid dithis feitheamh an fhir a bhios a mach.
Feumaidh gach beo, bheathachadh.
40 Far an taine ’n abhuin is ann is mo ’n fhuaim.

Fanaidh duine sona re sith, is bheir duine dona dui-lèum. (e)


<eng>(c) Al. Ramsay’s Scots Prov. Mr. Ferguson, Minister of Dunfermline’s Scots Prov.


You know what it is to be afraid.
Where women are, you will find superstition.
Where there are geese there are goslings.
Let the owner of the cow go first in the mire.
25 Even the ravens must live.
Where the men have lain down, from thence they must rise.
Where there are no dogs, they cannot be set on.
The full man’s leavings.
The boding of the raven.
30 Where there are no male sucklings at the breast, there will be no men for the war.
To do a good turn to the king, may come in the way of a beggar. (c)
A cat may look at a king.
Take it not with your eye. (d)
Where there are no bushes, there can be no nuts.
35 A man who is to lace a piece of hide on his feet, must rise before him who has shoes to put on.
Every creature, but man, can bear being well.

He who is truly a man, will be equally so whether in company or alone.
Keep a double portion for him that is abroad.
Every thing that lives must have the means.
40 Where the river is most shallow, it makes the greatest noise.
The fortunate man waits, and he shall arrive in peace; the unlucky hastens, and evil will be his fate. (e)


(d) Alluding to the idea that the eye has a fascinating power.
(e) Pennant’s Tour.


[TD 34]

<gai>G

GE fogasg duinn, is faisg oirn.
Ge d’ fhaice tu fear a luidh le d’ mhathair, dh’innseadh tu e.
Greim fad ’s grad bhi ullamh.
Geallar faoigh do cheann cinnidh, is leigear dha fein tidhinn g’a shire.
5 Ge fogasg clach do làr, is faisg’ no sin cobhair Choibhidh. (a)
Gheibh cearc an scrìbean rud-eigin, is cha’n fhaidh cearc a chrùbain dad idir.
Gleàdh a chlamhain air na cearcan.
Ga h-olc an saor is math a shliosag.
Gleidhidh airc ìnnleachd, ge d’ nach glè’ i oighreachd.

10 Geine dheth fein a scoilteas an darach.
Ge d’ threabhadh tu dùthaich, chaithe tu dùthaich.

Ge d’ bhris thu ’n cnaidh, cha d’ dheoil thu ’n smior.

Ge d’ is e ’n tigh, cha’n iad a mhuinntir.
Gleidhidh an t seannaich air na caoirich.
15 Ge math a chobhair an t sealg, cha mhath an saoghal an t sealg. (b)
Ge b’ e bhios na fhear muinntir aig an t-seannach, fèumaidh e earbal a ghiùlan.
Ge d’ is feird a chaillich a garadh, cha’n fheird i scalda.
Ge d’ dh’ èignichear an sean-fhocal, cha bhreugaichear e.
Ge dubh an dearcag ’s milis i; ge dubh mo chaileag ’s boidheach i.


<eng>(a) Coivi, or Ceafi, the Arch Druid. This is expressive of the profound veneration the people of old entertained of their guides. Cefæus Druidarum.—Bede.


G

THOUGH near us be nigh, upon us is nigher.
If you saw a man in bed with your mother, you would tell.
Take long stitches, and have done with it.
Promise a gift to your chief, and trust himself with the finding it.
5 The stone clings not faster to the ground, than Coivi’s help to the needy. (a)
The hen that scrapes will find something, but the one that plies not her feet, will find nothing.
The watch of the kite over the chickens.
A bad wright, but good chips.
Necessity will make a shift, though it should not make an inheritance.
10 A wedge made of oak will cleave it.
If you laboured a whole country side, you would consume its produce.
Though you broke the bone, you did not suck the marrow.
Though this be the house, these are not the inhabitants
The watch of the fox over the lambs.
15 Though hunting be a good help, it is but a poor living. (b)
Whoever is servant to the fox, must bear up his tail.
Though the old woman be the better of a warming, she is not the better of being burnt.
Though the old saying be gainsaid, it cannot be disproved.
Though the berry be black, it is sweet; though my lassie be black, she is pretty.


(b) A modern proverb.


[TD 35]

<gai>20 Gabhaidh ’m fluich, is cha ghabh a chlach.
Ga dubh am fitchich ’s geal leis iseun.
Gabh an la math fad ’sa gheibh thu e.
Geallaidh am fear feumach, a ni breùgach nach faigh e;
Saolaidh ’m fear sanndach, gach ni gheallar gu’m faighear.
Gheibhir deire gach sgeoil a nasgaidh.
25 Gheibh pronnan mar phronas e, is gheibh loman an lom dhonas.
Ge d’ nach duin’ an t aodach, cha duin’ a bhios as èugmhais.
Gaoire na caillich ’sa chùil dìanaich.
Ga cruaidh scarachduin, cha robh dithis gun dealacha.
Gach diùiras gu deire.
30 Gach fear na ghreum.
Glas labhradh air inghean gun fhios; teangaidh abhra dh’ iomraicheas.
Ge d’thug thu bèum dha, cha d’thug thu mìr dha.
Gream na h easgain air a h-earr. (c)
Gabhadh iad do mo chrodh sa chlodach, nar bhios mo bhreacan air mo ghualain, bidhidh mo bhuaile chruidh ann. (d)


<eng>(c) Al Ramsay’s Scots Prov. Kelly’s do.
(d) Meaning that the person has nothing to care for; similar to the Latin saying, Omnia mea mecum porto.

<gai>Breacan,<eng> i. e. a party coloured plaid, all tartan plaids are so called by the Highlanders, though they call thick wauked cloth of which they make coats, Highland trouse, &c. <gai>Cath-d’ath,<eng> i. e. the fighting colour.

<gai>Breac<eng> is a general term for any thing that is variegated, spotted, or party coloured, as <gai>breac,<eng> a fish; <gai>a bhreac,<eng> the small-pox; <gai>fear breac,<eng> a man pitted with the small-pox; <gai>each breac,<eng> a pye ball’d horse; <gai>breac-luirgnich,<eng> meazle shin’d; <gai>breacag,<eng> a cake, &c. &c. The names of places in which the word <gai>breac<eng> occurs in this island are no less numerous. Such as Braco, the Earl of Fife’s title; Braco, and Inchbraco, in Strath Earn, above Perth; Achnambrec, Barbrec, in Argyle-shire; Breacshiabh, a place once belong-


20 Wet fuel will burn, but stones will not.
Though the raven be black, he thinks his birds fair.
Take the good day while it can be got.
The needy promises what he cannot perform;
And the greedy thinks what is promised will be found.
You will pick out at last every story for nothing.
25 The liberal gets as he spends, but misery follows the niggard.
Though dress make not the man, yet he is scarcely a man that wants it.
Like the old woman’s complaining in the safe corner.
Though separation be hard, there never were two but have some time parted.
The worst is always referred to the last.
30 Every man in his strength.
When modesty forbids the fair to speak, she speaks with her eyes.
He is readier to give a taunt than a morsel.
The hold of an eel by the tail. (c)
Let them pelt my cattle with stones from the channel; when my plaid is over my shoulder, my cow fold is in it. (d)


ing to the chief of the Macgregors; Breacach and Ri-breac, in different places; as also Brecknock in Wales. Let me add, that Buchanan observes, that Bria, Brica, and Briga, are frequent names of places in Spain, France, and Italy, &c. which the Celts once possessed.

It is therefore, at least, probable, that the name of Britain and Britons comes from the word <gai>Breac,<eng> either from the variegated colour of the island, or from their party coloured garments. I shall only observe, that many, if not all, the ancient inhabitants of Britain were once called Brigantes, as well as those of Galloway, and the north of England, &c. Hence, from Breac, Bric, and Bricain, i. e. spotted or variegated, comes both Brigantes and Britain, the land of the Brigantes; agreeable to which is Mr. Macpherson’s etymology of it—Breac Inn, i. e. the variegated island.


[TD 36]

<gai>35 Ge d’ bhiodh na tri ghill san aon mhaide.

Ge mor àrdan na h easaich, cha d’ theid i seach an luath.
Ge d’ bheir thu bean a ifrinn, bheir i dha-thigh thu.

Gach duine tarruing nan sruthan gu mhuilin fèin.
Gabhaidh gach struth dh’ iansaidh na h-ahhnadh is gach aon abhain do na chuan. *
40 Ge beag an t-ubh thig èun as.
Ge b’ e ghleidheas a long gheibh e la’.
Ge d’ nach biodh ann ach an righ is fhear muinnter faodaidh duin’ a chuid iontraichin.
Gach èun gu nead, is a shrabh na ghob.
Ge ’d is ann o na bhior, cha ’n ann o na choire.

45 Gabhaidh cona ùr le bhi-shèide.
Ge d’ is e ’n duin ’an tuathanach, is e ’n t-each an saothraich.
Ge milis a mhil co dh’ imlicheadh bhar dris i.
Galar fad is èug na bhun.
Ge dàil do dh’ fhear an uilc, cha dearmad.
50 Ga ma th’ ann a ghonar am fiosaich.
Ge dubh a cheann, ’s geal a chridhe.
Ga domhail doimh, mar bhios mathair fir an tighe, an rathad na cloinne, no ’n sallas na ’n èun.

Ga d’ chuirin falt mo chinn fo chasan.

Gaoth air luing, gaoth tre tholl, is gaoth ath-theannda.

55 Gus an gabh a mhuir teine, cha’n fhaidh duine, clann duin’ eile.
Gheibhidh tu na feannagaibh firich. (e)


<eng>* Eccles. i. 7. “All the rivers run into the sea, yet the sea is not full.”


35 Though I had engagements three, I would fly to succour thee.
Let the gruel boil ever so proudly, it cannot go farther than the ashes.
If you take a wife from hell, she will see you to her own home at last.
Every man draws water to his own mill.
Every brook runs to the river, and every river to the sea *.
40 Be the egg ever so little, a bird may come from it.
He who keeps his ship will find a day to sail.
Though none were by but the king and his man in waiting, a person may miss his own.
Every bird to his nest with his straw in his mouth.
Though escaped from the spit, it has not escaped from the pot.
45 Wet fuel will burn when blown.
The man is the farmer, but the horse is the labourer.

Though honey is sweet, no one licks the briar to find it.
A long illness, and death at its root.
Delay to the wicked, is not a pardon.
50 Evil betide the prophet.
Though his head is black, his heart is fair.
Cross and cumbersome, like the husband’s mother, always in the way of the children, or in the light of the chickens.
Though I would lay the hair of my head under his feet.
Bad winds—Wind in a ship, wind passing through a hole, and an eddy wind.
55 Till the sea takes fire, no man will beget another man’s children.
You would even have the crows off the rocks. (e)


(e) Said of those who boast that they will get what is impossible to be obtained.


[TD 37]

<gai>I

IS sona ’m fear a thig an ceann a chodach.
Is tric a bheoich srad bheag, teine mor.
Is fad an timchiol nach tachair
Is iomadh lei’ sgeul a th’ aig an earrach air a bhi fuar.
5 Is mairg g’a ’n scuab bun staghail, bo mhaol odhar Mhicalonabhaidh. (a)
Is fèird cu, cu a chrochadh.
Is bior gach srabh san oidhche.
Is ionan tosd is aideach.
Is tric a bha breagh air an fhèil, musach na thigh fèin.
10 Is tric a bha na h-abhnaichin a meithe, is na h-uild a rith.
Is tric a bha na loingisibh mor a crionadh is na h-amair mhùin a seòladh.
Is mairg a dh’ iarradh rud air a chat is e fein a miabhail.
Is duilich rath a chuir air duine dona.
Is dall duine ’n cuile duine eile.
15 Is buaine na gach ni ’n nàire.
Is feird brèugaich fia’nuis.
Is fàs a choill’ as nach goirear.
Is oghar gach sean, ’s geal gach nodha gu’n nuig snothach an fhearna. (b)
Is fearr cratha na cainbe no cratha na cirbe.


<eng>(a) Macgilony was a famous hunter. He traversed through most of the Grampian hills; several vestiges of his temporary huts are still to be seen in different parts of the mountains of Athole. He commonly carried his furniture upon an untamed horse, and moved from one place to another as he thought most convenient, but if his load


I

HE is lucky who comes in time to his meat.
Oft has a small spark kindled a great fire.
They go wide who never meet.
Many an excuse has the spring for being cold.
5 Woe to him whose main support is the white cow of Macgilony. (a)
One dog fares the better that another is hanged.
Every straw is a stake in the night.
Silence is equal to confession.
The person who is fine at the fair, is often nasty at the fire-side.
10 Often have the rivers dried up, while the rivulets continue running.
Often is the large ship laid up, whilst the small skiff keeps the sea.
It were hard to beg from the cat, while she herself is snarling for want.
It is difficult to bring luck to a luckless man.
One man is blind to another man’s care.
15 More lasting than any thing else is shame.
A liar should have a voucher.
It is a deserted wood where no bird sings.
The old is tarnished and dun; the new is fair, even to the bark of the alder. (b)
The shakings of a canvas sheet is better than the dusting of a bag.


chanced to fall, he went no further, as long as he could procure venison; what he called his white cow, was the wild buck or doe of the mountain.
(b) The inner bark of the alder is white when new peeled, but it turns red in a few hours; hence the above proverb.


[TD 38]

<gai>20 Is labhar na builg fhalamh.
Is co math na ’s leor is iomadaidh.
Is mairg air nach bi eagal na brèige.
Is i chiall cheannaich is fearr.
Is math a sheoladh an rathaid am fear nach bi math air an aoidheachd.
25 Is tric a cha fala-dhà gu fala-rìridh.
Is marig a dheanadh subhachas re dubhachas fir eile.

Is fearr iomal a phailteas no teis meadhon na gaine.

Is ann air a shon fein a ni ’n cat crònan.
Is dàn duine na chuile fein.
30 Is faide gu bràth no gu Bealtuinn. (c)
Is ann an ceann bliadhna dh’ innseas iasgair ortan.
Is feird gach math a mhèudach.
Is fearr no’n t òr an sgeul inns’ air a chòir.
Is fearr earbsa math na droch fhoidinn.
35 Is fearr a mhiosg no bhi gun lei’ sgeul.
Is fearr a bhi sona no bhi saoireachail.
Is searbh a ghloir nach fhaodar èisdeachd, is dubh na mnaibh ris nach bi iad.
Is corrach gob an dubhain.
Is mian leis a chleirich mios mhè bhi aig an-t sagart.
40 Is math a chluich a lionas brù.
Is olc an teach nach guilean fhasair.
Iasad a chaib gun a chuir fuidh thalamh.
Is àrd ceann an fheigh ’sa chreachan (chabraich)
Is ann air gnuis a bheirear breith.
45 Is duilich seobhag a dheananh do ’n chlamhan. (e)
Is sona gach cuid an comaidh, is mairg a chromadh na aonar. (f)
Is bean tighe ’n luchag air a tigh fein.


<eng>(c) Beltein, or the 1st of May, was one of the Druids festivals; they had a fire dedicated to Baal on that day, from which it obtained the name of <gai>La-Bal-teine,<eng> i. e. the day of Baal’s fire; the village of Torr-Bhal, i. e. Baal’s-hill, oppo-


20 Loud is the bouncing of the blown-up bladder.
Enough is as good as too much.
Woe to him who is not afraid to tell a lie.
Bought wisdom is best.
He is often most willing to show a stranger the way past, who is least willing to receive him at home.
25 Often sport turns to earnest.
Woe be to him who makes mirth of another man’s woe.
The crumbs of plenty are better than the middle dish of want.
It is for himself that the cat purrs.
A man is bold in his own corner.
30 For ever is longer than till Whitsuntide. (c)
It is at the year’s end the fisher can judge of his luck.
The best thing will bear to be magnified.
It is better than gold to state a matter aright.
It is better to have hopes than sad expectation.
35 Better plead drunkenness, than want an excuse.
Better be lucky, than pains taking.
It is a bitter speech that may not be heard; black is the maid that may not be kissed.
Sharp is the point of the hook.
The clerk wishes the priest a fat dish.
40 It is good sport that fills the belly.
He is a silly horse that cannot carry his harness.
The loan of a spade that is not to be put in the ground.
The deer carries his head high on the mountain.
It is from the countenance we judge of the man.
45 It is difficult to make a hawk of a kite. (e)
Pleasant is the bit that is shared:—woe to him who sits down alone. (f)
The mouse is mistress in her own house.


site Dunkeld, was one of the places where they celebrated that festival. Smith’s Gaelic Antiquities, Pennant’s Tour.
(e) Or, “A carrion kite will make a bad hawk.”
(f) Or, “Who eats alone, saddles his horse alone.”


[TD 39]

<gai>Is math ’n t-each a thoileachas an marcaich.
Is mairg a chuireadh a chuineag air a cial, do neach nach cuire dad innte.
50 Is mairg a shìneadh lamh na h-airce do chroidh na circe.
Is fearr an t olc eòlach no ’n t-olc ain-eolach.
Is fearr teine beag a gharas, no teine mor a loisgeas.

Is ioma ni a chailleas fear na h-imrich. (g)

Is furas buill’ an treun-fhir ai’neacha. (h)
55 Is fuar comain an ath-chleamnais.

Is trian suiridh samhladh.

Is trian oibir tòisich.
Is fearr fuighil na bràid no fuighil na sceig.
Is lom ma m’ luirigin builg a thoirt do m’ choin.
60 Is math an scáthan suil caraid.
Is trom an èir’ an t-ain-eolas.
Is tric a chuir fear gàra ma lios, nach d’ thug toradh as.
Is maith ga ’m foghnadh feara oghar do mhnaibh riach.
Is lag gualain gun bhrathair,
’Nam do na fir teachd a làthair.
65 Is furas teine fhada ’n cois craoibhe.
Is teughaidh ’m brat a chuir dùbailt (i)
Is ann as a bheagan a thig am moran.
Is duilich duin’ a lorgach’ tre abhainn.


<eng>(g) A farmer in the island of Islay, Argyleshire, (who had a wise child), was intending to remove; his child, when at meat, rose up, and went to the other side of the house, and spilt part of his victuals, upon which he repeated the above saying; his father, taking the hint, replied, Please God, I shall not remove for this year.
(h) A bird going to visit the wren, found him threshing corn with his twelve sons, the stranger at a loss to know


It is a good horse that pleases the rider.
It is ill with him who stoops for relief to the niggard.

It is ill with him who holds out the hand of poverty to the illiberal.
The evil known, is better than the evil unknown.
A little fire that warms, is better than a great one that burns.
Many things drop from him who removes his dwelling. (g)
The blow of the valiant is easily known. (h)
55 Cold is the connection with a first alliance, when a second is formed.
To be given to a woman, is one third of the way to win her.
He hath his work half done, who hath it well begun.
The thief may have some profit, but the scorner none.
My legs are too bare to be giving bread to my dogs.
60 The eye of friend is a good mirror.
Ignorance is a heavy load.
Many a man has planted a garden who never reaped the fruits thereof.
Sooty coloured lads may serve ash coloured lasses.

Feeble is the arm of the man who has not a brother,
At the time that folks are banding together.
65 It is easy to light a fire at the root of a tree.
A covering is the thicker for being doubled. (i)
It is from the little that the great grows.
It is difficult to follow a man’s track through the water.


the father from his progeny, says, “The hero’s stroke is easily known.” At which the old wren turned about upon its heel, and answered, <gai>“Bha lo dha sin;”<eng> “there was a day of that,” or as some have it, <gai>“Cha tuig iadsa na garaichin sin;”<eng> “little do these naughty things know that.”
(i) Said of a couple that are related to each other before marriage, by which means they become doubly allied.


[TD 40]

<gai>Is tric a bha cloidheamh fad an laimh gealtair.

70 Is gann a ghaoth nach seoladh tu. (k)

Imridh breug gobhal.
Is sleamhuin leac an tigh mhoir. (l)
Is olc a bhandrach a phiob.
Is boidheach it an eoin a thig am fad.
75 Is fearr a thomhas fo sheachd no mhill’ uile dh’ aon bheachd *.
Is olc a chraig a thrèigis a h-eoin fèin.

Is olc do bheatha Chonain (m)
Is mairg nach beathaich a thruaghan.
Is leasg a ni ’s èidir.
80 Imridh am fear a bhios na èigin beart èidich a dheanamh.
Is díu a cheird nach foghlamar.
Is olc do ’n long ’nuair a dh’ èigheas an stùir-fhear.
Is tric a bha cloidheamh math an droch thruail.
Is tric a bha sliochd na seilg air seachran.
85 Is duilich triubhas a thoirt o thoin luim.
Is caol an tèud as nach cinn an onair.
Is mor le donnag a cuid abhrais, is cha’n e mhothaid ach a dhorad.
Is fearr greim caillich no taruing laoich.
Is fuar an goile nach teo deoch.
90 Is furas fuil a thoirt a ceann carrach,
Is gal’ a thoirt air craos cam.
Is fearr làn an duirn do cheird, no làn an duird do dh’ òr.
Is fearr eirigh’ moch no suidh an-moch.


<eng> (k) Applied to cunning people who are never wanting to found a claim where they think to make any thing by it.
(l) Verified in the changeable manner of courtiers.


Oft has a long sword been in the hand of a coward.
70 It would be a small wind with which you could not sail. (k)
A lie needs to be propped.
Slippery is the stone at the great man’s door. (l)
The bag-pipe is a sorry widow.
Fair is the feather of the far fetched bird.
75 Better measure under seven, than spoil all at once *.
It is a bad sign of a rock when its own birds forsake it.
You have a sad life of it, Conan. (m)
Woe to him who will not maintain his own poor.
Lazy is the work that is forced.
80 A man in necessity may be forced to do what is wrong.
It is a sorry trade that may not be taught.
It is bad with the ship when the steersman roars out.
Oft has a good sword had a sorry scabbard.
Oft has the race of the hunters been bewildered.
85 It is difficult to strip a bare breech.
Small is the string that you will not play upon.
The trouble of spinning it makes the drab think her wool too bulky.
Better is an old woman’s hold than a hero’s pull.
Cold is the stomach that will not warm drink.
90 It is easy to draw blood from a mangey head,
Or tears from a wry face.
A handful of skill is better than a handful of gold.

Better rise early than sit late.


* Better keep within bounds than go to extremes.
(m) When Conan was told that he had a bad life in Hell, he often replied, “If they bring ill to me, they get no better.” See notes upon the letters B and C.


[TD 41]

<gai>Is mairg do ’m bu mhaor a mada is e na shoda.

Is meas an fhèad no ’n èighidh.
95 Is fearr an giomach no bhi gun fhear. (n)

Is cruaidh an cath as nach tig aon fhear.
Is faoilidhid duin’ a chuid a thairgse ge d’ is feard e aìge fhèin e.
Is i ’n deathach a bhios a stigh thig a mach.
Is tric a bha sonas air beul mor.
100 Is i ’n fhoidhidin mhath a chlaoidheas an an-shocair.
Is e ’n suidh bochd a nì ’n garadh beartach.
Is mairg do ’n dùchas droch galar.
Is tric a chaillear fear na mor mhisneich.
Is tric a fhuair olc an airidh cár.
105 Is trom an cat re shìr ghiùlan.
Is fearr an cu a ritheas no ’n cu mheithis.

Is fearr fuine thana no bhi uile falamh.
Is samhach an obair dol a dholaidh.
Is fearr pilleadh am meadhon an àtha, no bathadh uile.
110 Is dona ’n fhèile chuireas duine fèin air an iomairt.
Is ann do ’n chlò ’n cath-dath. (o)
Is cosmhuil an trù ris an troich.

Is fearr cu luath no teangaidh labhar.
Is luath fear doimeig air fàir, re la fuar erraich.


<eng>(n) Two women lived together in one house, one of whom stole the other’s meal, which made her neighbour put a living lobster into her meal bag; no sooner had the thief put her hand into it, than she was caught by the lobster, at which she bawled out, <gai>“Tha ’n donas ann do<eng>


It is ill with him who sends his message by a dog will fawn wherever he comes.
The thief’s whistle is worse than his hollow.
95 Better have a lobster, than have nothing in place of a man. (n)
Hard is the battle from which none escape.
It is liberal of a man to offer part of his fare, although he is in need of it himself.
The smoak that is within must come out.
The large mouth has a luck to be filled.
100 Patience overcomes trouble.

The lowest seat is the nearest the fire.
Sad is the inheritance of disease.
Oft has the couragious fallen.
It is a pity, has often been crossed.
105 The cat will feel heavy, if carried always.
Better is the dog who runs out, than he who fares ill at home.
A small batch is better than no bread.
Silent is the process of ruin.
Better turn half way, than drown in the ford.

110 Bad is that liberality which strips a man of his all.
Plaids of the same web. (o)
It is all alike, whether the great man’s fool or his dwarf.
Better is a dog swift of foot, than loud of tongue.
Swift runs the drab’s husband o’er the bleak hill.


<gai>phoc,”<eng> i. e. the Devil is in your satchel; <gai>“Tha nar tha thus ann,”<eng> yes, when you are in it replied the other: The lobster thus preventing her meal from being stolen, occasioned the above saying.
(o) Similar to, “They are all chips of the same block.”


[TD 42]

<gai>115 Is fearr fuighil fanoid, no fuighil fairmid.
Is beag orm na bhiodh ann troidh air áis an t seann duine.
Is beag orm na bhiodh ann, sruth bheannacha na cearnadh.
Is mor a deir ceann slàn.
Is mor a dh’ fhuilingeas cridhe ceart ma’ m bris e.
120 Is fearr fire faìre, no mo thruaigh.
Is fearr cuid na ceud oidhche no ’n oidhche fa dheire.
Is fad a bha thu, is luath a thainig thu.

Is tric a chinn an cneadach, is a dh’ fhalbh an sodach.
Is coma leam fear fuathdain, is e luath labhar.
125 Is leasg le leisgein dol a luigh, is seachd leisge leis eirigh.
Is olc an fheoil air nach galbh salann, is meas a cholunn air nach gabh guth.
Is fearr deire math na droch thoiseach.

Is beag cuid an la fhluich dheth.
Is e ’n ceo geamhraidh, a ni ’n cathamh earraich.
130 Is ann boidheach, is cha ’n ann dàchail.
Is dàn’ a theid duin air a chuid fein.
Is trù nach gabh comhairle, ’s is trù ghabhas gach comhairle.
Is tric a thug an crodh sgiamhach, an ceann miallach o ’n adhard.
Is mairg air an tig na dh’ fhuilingeas.
135 Is beag an ni nach deire ’san fhoghar.

Is eas-gaidh an droch ghil air chuairt.
Is trom dithis air aon mhèis, is gun bhi ac’ ach aon ghleùs.
Is beo na h-eion ge ’d nach seobhaig.
Is treise tuath no tighearna.
140 Is fiamhach an t sùil a lotar.


<eng>115 The object of scorn is better than that of envy.
I like not the flight of the aged.

I like not the smooth address of the robber.

Much may be said by the head that’s unhurt.
Much will a stout heart suffer ’ere it break.
120 Better be envied than pitied.
The fare of the first night is better than the fare of the last.
You have been long a coming, and you are come too soon.
Oft the puny comes through, while the vigorous drop.
I like not the strange guest, who has a loud tongue.
125 Slow is the sluggard to go to bed, and seven times slower to rise.
It is bad meat that will not take salt, and as bad a person that will not take advice.
The refuse of the good is preferable to the best of the ill.
He would make but a poor figure in a rainy day.
Fog in winter, is blown snow in the spring.
130 Rather pretty than handsome.
A man boldly takes of his own.
He is a fool that will take no advice, and a fool that takes every advice.
The flock that is fair, will raise up the head of the mistress though it be foul.
It is bad with him who meets with all he can bear.
135 It is a little hindrance, that will not seem great in harvest.
The lazy at home is alert abroad.
Two at a dish are too many, when there is but one service.
Birds must live, though they be not hawks.
The tenants are stronger than the laird.
140 The eye that is hurt, is ever fearful of harm.


[TD 43]

<gai>Is luath am fear san tàr an t-eagal.
Is fearr teiche math no droch fhuirich.
Is e fà ma ’m biodh tu ciod e gheibhidh tu.
Is coma leam comunn an òil.
145 Is buidh le bochd ionbhruich ge d’ nach bi e deadh-bhruich.
Is tom gach tulaich san t samhra.
Is lom an leac air nach creim thu.
Is fearr mathair phocanach, no athair clai’each.

Is call caillich a poc’ s gun tuille bhi aice.

150 Is math am bail’ am fuighir biadh a chinn iarruidh.

Is uaireach uisg e teath a shire fuidh chloich fhuair.
Is co math dhamh gabhail do m’ choraig ’sa chloich.
Is beag a th’ eider do ghal ’s do ghàire.
Is tric a dhi-moil an ceannaich a ni bu mhaith leis na mhàlaid. (p)
155 Is ioma ni thig air an laogh, nach do shaoil a mhathair.
Is beo duin’ air bheagan, ach cha bheo e gun dad idir.
Is duilich a thoirt o laimh a cleachduin.

Is soilleir cu dubh air liana bhàin.
Is soilleir cu bàn air liana dhuibh.
Na ’m bithinn re fiadhachd bheannn.
B’ e ’n cu riabhach mo roghainn.
Is i ’n taois bhog a ni ’m màs rag.
160 Is duilich beanas tighe dheanamh air na fraidhibh failbhe.
Is olc a thig saor sàr-bhuileach, gobha crith-lamhach, agus leigh tiom dèisneach.
Is meas an t-eagal no ’n cogadh.
Is meas an t-sochair no mhèirle.


<eng>(p) Like, “Care not would fain have it.


Nimble is he who has taken fright.
Better get off safe than stay to suffer.
Your business is to try what you can get.
I regard not the friendship that is formed in liquor.
145 The poor are glad of broth, though not sufficiently boiled.
In summer the bleak hill is a pleasant knoll.
It is a bare stone, from which you will pick nothing.
Better a mother with a sackful of victuals, than a father with a sword at his side.
The old woman is ruined by the loss of her satchel.
150 It is a good place, where victuals are got for the asking.
It is in vain to look for warm water under a cold stone.
I may as well press a stone with my finger.
There is but little betwixt your cry and your laugh.
Oft does the pedler depreciate what he wish’d in his pack. (p)
155 Many things befal the calf, that its mother never thought of.
A man may live upon little, but he cannot live upon nothing.
It is difficult to take from the hand the habit it has got.
A black dog is conspicuous on white ground,
A white dog is conspicuous on black ground;
When I hunt on the mountain,
The grey dog is my choice.
Raw dads make fat lads.
160 It is difficult to be a good landlady with empty baskets.
A heavy handed wright, a trembling handed smith, and a squeamish surgeon, are aukward to behold.
It is worse to be in fear, than to be in battle.
To be silly is worse than to be covetous.


[TD 44]

<gai>Is mairg do ’u cuid, cuid duin’ eile.

Is duilich burn glan a thoirt a tobar salach.

165 Is duilich am fear nach bi na chadal a dhùsga.
Is buaire gach sian a ghaoth.
Is mor thugam, ’s is beag agam.
Is dìu teine fearn’ ùr.
Is dùi ’n duine mi-rùin.
Is dùi dibhe fian sean.
Is dùi an domhain droch bhean.
Is duilich copan làn a ghiùlan.
170 Is mo làn do shùil no làn do bhronn.
Is leir do’n dall a bheul g’a cam a shuil.
Is searbh r’a dhiol am fion is milse’ re òl.

Is math an fhiacail a bhi roimh an teangaidh.
Is tric a mheall e sheis, a neach a gheall a bhi tairis da.
175 Is moch a dh’ eirigheas am fear a bheir an car as.
Is math a mhathair chèil’ an fhòid.
Is mor an dearmad mearachd focail.
Is ann a tha ’n t olc anns a mhì-rùin.
Is fearr foghainteach feargach,
No fear mìn cealgach is e ciùin.
Is treis dithis san atha no fad o chèile.
Is feich air duine na gheallas e.
180 Is dàn cu air otrach fein.
Is ioma long cho bhrist a thainig gu tìr.
Is beadarach a ni ’n onair.
Is fearr teachd an deire cuirm no ’n toisich truid.

Is fearr sean fheich no sean fholachd.
185 Is ann aig’ duine fein is fearr tha fios c’ ait an bheil a bhrog ga ghoirteacha.


<eng>It is ill with him who trusts for his portion, to the portion of another.
It is difficult to draw pure water from an impure fountain.
165 It is difficult to waken him who is not asleep.
Wind gives its rage to the shower.
Much I brought, and little I have.
It is the bane of the fire to be fed with green alder.
It is the bane of man to have malice.
It is the bane of wine to be stale.
But the bane of the devil is a bad woman.
It is difficult to carry a full cup.
170 Your eye is bigger than your belly.
The blind man finds the way to his mouth.
The wine that is sweet to the taste, is bitter in the reckoning.
It is good that the tooth is before the tongue.
Oft has the greatest profeffer of friendship betrayed trust.
175 He must rise early who is to get the better of him.
The green turf is a good mother-in-law.
Much harm may come from the mistake of a word.
The evil is in the malice or evil intention.
The trusty man, though irascible,
Is better than a deceitful tongue though mild.
Two are stronger in the ford together than asunder.
Every promise is a debt of honour.
380 A dog is bold on his own dunghill.
Many a ship as much damaged has got into port.
Honour is delicate.
Better come at the end of a feast than at the beginning of a fray.
Better an old debt than an old grudge.
185 The wearer knows best where the shoe pinches him.


[TD 45]

<gai>Is le duin’ an greim a shluigis e, ach cha leis an greim a chagnas e.
Is fuar don-cleamhna.
Is feird gach cneath a cneasnachadh.
Is e cheud taom do ’n taigeis is teoithe.
190 Is mairg a theid do’n traigh nar tha h-eoin fein g’a trèige.
Is ann air a mhuic reamhar a theid an t-im.
Is tric a bha craicean an uain air a chlèth, co luath re craicean na sean chaora.
Is fhusadh deadh ainm a chall no choisin.
Is geal gach cunnarach a thig am fad.
195 Is ionan aithreachas crìche is a bhi cuir fil ma fheil-Màrtain.
Is ioma bo fhad a reamhar nach deach riamh air theadhair. (q)
Is ea-sgith nò no madain.

Is eigin dol far am bi ’n fhòid. (r)
Is uasal mac an an-uasail, an tìr unga na meirleach, ’s an-uasal mac an uasail, mar bi e ceirdeach.

200 Is mian le trubhas a bhi ’measg aodaich,
Is mian leam fein a bhi ’m measg mo dhaone.
Inisc an dara cùr air a chùr eìle (athais.)
Innis ga cùr is a bun am fasda.
Is ann do lamh ghlan bu choir altacha.
Is coir smuainteach air na h-uile gnothach an toiseach.
205 Is math bean an deadh-fhir’ ach is fearr dha faotain math.
Is fearr e no choslas.
Is ann a dh’ eirich a ghrian air.


<eng>(q) Applied to women who never marry.
(r) The many proverbs on fate and destiny in the


A man may call what he has swallowed his own; though not what he has only chewed.
Cold is he who has no friend to his back.
Every wound is the better of being squeezed.
The first squirt of the haggies is hottest.
190 It is ill with him who wishes to settle in a land that is left by its natives.
It is the fat hog that is basted.
You will see the skin of the lamb hung up as oft as the skin of the ewe.
It is easier to lose a good name than to gain it.
Fair is the pennyworth that comes from afar.
195 Too late repentance is like sowing seed when the season is past.
Many a fat cow was never fed at the end of a tether. (q)
People are readier to act at night than in the morning.
We must go to the sod that is to cover us. (r)
A man of merit, though of low birth, is respected even among thieves, but a man of good extract is never esteemed without parts.
200 As trouse like to be among garments, so doth a man love to be among his own kindred.
One blackguard satirising another.
Sowing a field in bondage to another.
Clean hands only we ought to salute.
Consider before you resolve.
205 A good husband’s wife is seldom ill, but it were better for him to find her good, than make her so.
He is better than likely, like the singed cat.
The sun has risen upon him.


Highlands, is a proof of the Druids doctrine of predestination. Smith’s Gaelic Antiq.


[TD 46]

<gai>Is cliùtich an onair no ’n t-òr.
Is fuar an inis an carn.
210 Is fhusadh sciuta no tional.
Is fearr suidhe goirid no seasamh fada.
Is math a dh’ imreadh an dàn a dheanamh an toisich, is a liudhad fear mille th’ aige.
Is fad o chèile crodh laoigh ar da shean-athar. (s)

Is tric a bha urraidh gun ni, is ni gun urraidh.

215 Is buaine dùchas no oilean.
Is mor fiach na foidhidinn,
Is lughaid a feirg fuireach;
Cha’n e ’n an-eanraisd a th’ ann,
Ach an an-fhoidhidinn nach fhuirich;
Fanaidh duine sona re sith;
Is bheir duine dona duibh lèum.
Is beo duine ’n deigh a shàrach, ach cha bheo e an dèigh a nàrach. (t)
Is e ’m beul a dh’ obas mu dheire.
Is leis a mheìrlich mhath na cheilis e.
220 Is co domhain an t-ath’ is an linne.
Is olc cuid a cheatharnaich re thasgaidh.
Is fad slios na bliadhna.
Is buaine bliadhna na nollaig.
Is buain’ a meangan a ghèilis no ’n crann mor a lùbas.
225 Is trom ann uallach an aois.
Is fearr oirleach do dh’ each, no troidh do chapal.
Is e mian ’n duine lochdaich, cach uile bhi contrachd.
Is fearr a bhi bochd no bhi brèugach.
Is furas dol an cuid fir, ach ’s e chuis fuirich ann.

230 Is lom an t-suil gun an rosg.


<eng>(s) i. e. There is a difference in the respectability of our parents.


Honesty is preferable to gold.
The bare cairn is a cold bed.
210 It is easier to scatter than gather.
A short sitting is preferable to a long standing.
A poem ought to be well composed, since it has many to carp at it.
Your grandfather’s flocks and mine were far asunder. (s)
Oft has the meritorious been destitute, and the undeserving wealthy.
215 Natural endowments exceed acquired ones.
Patience is valuable;
Time wears out wrath;
The storm is not so dreadful,
As the impatient suppose,
Therefore the happy man waits, and arrives in peace,
But the unfortunate proceeds, and evil will be his fate.
A man may live with credit after distress but not after disgrace. (t)
It is the mouth that refuses at last.
All is his own that the thief can conceal.
220 The ford is as deep as the pool.
What the robber gets is ill laid up.
The whole year is a long stretch.
The year is longer than Christmas day.
The small twig that yields will outlast the beam that cracks.
225 Age is a heavy burden.
An inch of a horse is worth a foot of a mare.
The wicked man’s desire is to have every man on a level with himself.
Better be poor than be false.
It is easy to make pretensions; but it is difficult to support them.
230 Naked is the eye that wants the eye-lashes.


(t) An honest man may enjoy life after his difficulties are over; but the man who is disgraced, will never overcome it.


[TD 47]

<gai>Is mor briatha gu lutha.
Is bochd an ainis lomardach.
Is co math peighinn chaomhna ’s peighinn choisin.
Is fearr altrom raidh no altrom bliadhna.

235 Is blàth anail na mathar.
Is coimheach an tom uire.
Is olc a thig muca saille, air na feidibh coille.
Is furas duine gun nair’ a bheathacha.
Is furas fear fhaotain d’ inghinn gun athair.
240 Is trom gèum bo air a h-an-eol.
Is mairg a bhiodh na chrann air doras duin’ eile.

Is math a ghabh e tomhas mo choise.
Is e do cheud chliu t-alladh.
Is olc an aoigh is mist an tigh.
245 Is fearr peighinn an fhortain no ’n rosd’ is cuig ceud.
Is math gach urchair troimh a chlàr.
Is mor a dh’ fhaodar a dheanamh fuidh laimh deadh-dhuine.
Is brathair do na chuthach an oige.
Is diombuan an tom is teìne ris.
250 Is trom uallach gun iris.
Is e ’n cunndas ceart dh’ fhàgas càirdin buidheach.
Is fearr beagan no bhi gun nì.
Is fearr caraid no con-amhìr.
Is fearr a bhi sona no bhi glic.
Ach cosnaidh an t-aithneach an t-anam.
Is leigh fear ath-chneath.
Is fearr guth na meìthe.
255 Is minic a bha comhairle righ an ceam amadain.

Is i mhathair eas-guidh a ni ’n inghean leasg.
Is duilich an coilich dubh a ghleidh o ’n fhraoch.
Is olc an obair la, nach d’thoir duine gu cala chum na h oidche.


<eng>The boaster talks loud till put upon oath.
Poor is the want that is naked.
A penny saved is a penny got.
A quarter’s good nursing is better than a whole year.
235 Warm is the breath of the mother.
Cold is the earthy hillock.
The fat sow will grow lean among daisies and lilies.
A shameless man can fend every where.
A fatherless maid is soon woo’d.
240 Deep is the cow’s low in a strange fold.
Woe be to him who would serve as a bolt to another man’s door.
He took the measure of my foot.
A man’s fame is his first out-setting.
He is a bad guest whom the house is the worse for.
245 Hap and a halfpenny is enough.
It is a good shot that hits the mark.
Much good may be done under the auspices of a worthy man.
Youth is brother to madness.
A hill on fire is not lasting.
250 Heavy is the load that is not tucked on.
Fair reckoning keeps friends in good humour.
Better have a little than nothing.
Better have a friend than an enemy.
Better be lucky than wise.
But the man of knowledge will save his foul.
A man is a surgeon for his second wound.
Better speak than lose right.
255 Oft has counsel fit for a king come from the head of a fool.
A willing mother makes a lazy daughter.
It is difficult to keep the black cock from the heath.
It is a bad day’s work, that will not put over one night.


[TD 48]

<gai>Is furas clach fhaotain gu tilg aìr cu.
260 Is fearr an t olc a chluintin no fhaicin.
Is eigin do ’n fhèumach a bhi falbhach.
Is diombuan gach cois air thìr gun eolas.

Is beag an deirc nach fearr no ’n èuradh.
Is fearr a bhi cìnnte no bhi cailte.
265 Is duilich bo chuir air laogh, is a gaol air gamhain.

Is feird bra breacadh, gun a briseadh. (u)

Is mairg a ni droch cleachduin.
Is e-ath philleadh na ceathairne ’s mease.
Is beag a ghearainis sinn ge mor a duiligeas sinn.
270 Is binn gach èun na dhoire fhèin.
Is gearr gach reachd ach riaghuilt Dhè.
Is mairg a chuireadh uile dhoidh, an aon duine cha ’n deo na chrè.
Is leis a ghobhain fuighil èil.
’S leis an leigh salach a lamh.
’S leis a bhard a theangaidh fèin.
’S leis an t saor a shliseag bhàn.
Is fad anèigh a Locha, is cobhair o chlan O Duibhne. (v)
275 Is suarrach an cairdeas a dh’ fheumas a cheanach-tric.
Is i ’n dias is truime is ilse chumas a ceann.
Is tearc teangaidh mhin gun ghath air a cul.


<eng>(u) A quern is a hand-mill used of old to grind corn.
(v) The Campbells, a great and numerous clan, are called the children of Duina, from Diarmad O Duibhne, i. e. Diarmed the son of Duina, their ancestor, one of Fingal’s heroes. There is an ancient poem upon the death of Diarmed, who was killed at a boar hunting at Binn, a Ghulbain in Glen-Shee in Perthshire, on the great road leading from Perth to Fort-George; on the top of the hill.


It is easy to find a stone to throw at a dog.
260 Better hear of evil than see it.
The needy person must keep going.
They make small progress, who travel in a strange land.
Small alms is better than none.
Better keep sure, than go to wreck.
265 It is ill to make a cow that is fond of a stirk take to a calf.
A quern is the better of being picked, if kept whole. (u)
A bad habit is a misery to the possessor.
The second coming of the robber is the worst.
We complain of little, though we may suffer much.
270 Every bird sings sweet in his own wood.
All sublunary things are transient.
Woe is he, whose sole dependence is upon one man.
The remainder of his goad belongs to the smith.
The refuse are the physician’s for dipping his hand.
The bard has the liberty to speak his mind.
And the wright has a right to his chips.
It is a far cry to Lochow, and so far is help from the children of Duina. (v)
275 It is a sorry kindness that must be often bought.

The heaviest ear’d corn drops its head most.
There are few smooth tongues without a sting behind.


is the boar’s bed; Mr. Smith made an elegant translation of this poem in his Gaelic Antiquities. The Campbells are also called <gai>Sliochd Dhiarmad an Tuirc,<eng> i. e. the posterity of Diarmid who slew the boar; from which circumstance, they take the boar’s head for their crest; a party of them had once a sharp encounter with the Gordons in the north, which occasioned this saying. Hist of Moray.


[TD 49]

<gai>Is math an oidhche, gleidheas i crodh is caoraich.
Is buan meicinn na folachd.
280 Is cruaidh an leanabh a bhreaga gun chomas da ghearan.
Is bàigheal duine ris an anam.
Is math an inn’each a chlach, gus an ruigear i.

Is fearr deathach an fhraoich no gaoth an reota.

Is fearr aon tigh air a nighe no dha dheug air a scuabadh.
285 Is coir ni a thasgaidh fa chomair na coise goirte.
Is farsaing beul a bhothain.
Is fearr freasdal no gàbha.
Is iomad mutha thig air an oidhche fhada gheamhraidh.
Is ann an uair is gainne ’m biadh is còir a roinn.

290 Is mairg a rachadh air a bhannaig is a theanna aige fèin.
Is ioma cron a bhios air duine bochd.
Is e ’n suidh docharach a stigh òsd is fearr.
Is cosmhuil re fear doimeag air fàir e.
Is toigh leis an fheannaig a garag fein.
295 Is bigid i sud, ’s bigid i sud, mar thuirt an dreathainn ’n’ar thug i làn a guib as a mhuir.
Is olc a nì bhi falamh.
Is righ an cam am measg nan dall.
Is buidheach Dia do’n fhìrin.
Is fearr coimhearsnach am fogasg na brathair fad laimh.
300 Is math an tom air am bi sealbh.
Is minic a bha droch laogh aig deadh mhart.
Is fuar leabaidh gun choi-leabaich.
Is iomad deadh ghniomh a dheanar mar bhiodh a dholaidh.
Is faide t-fiacail no t-fhèusag.


<eng>Night brings all creatures home.
Lasting is the shoot that springs from malice.
280 It is difficult to please the child who cannot tell his complaints.
A man is careful of his own life.
The stone is a good chopping block till it be reached.
The smoak of heath is better than the wind of frost.
One house washed clean is better than twelve sweeped.
285 Something should be kept for a sore foot.
Wide is the door of a hut.
Better be wary than fall into danger.
Many a change in the long winter night.

It is when victuals are scarce that they ought to be most carefully dealt out.
290 Woe be to him who would take from others when he has enough of his own.
The poor man has many faults.
The uneasy seat at the ale-house is the best.
He is like the drab’s husband.
The crow loves its own young.
295 It is so much less, as the wren said when she took a mouthful out of the sea.
It is a bad thing to have nothing.
The blind of one eye is king among the blind.
Truth is pleasing to God.
A neighbour at hand is better than a brother at a distance.
300 It is a good hillock that has luck on the top of it.
Oft has a good cow had a bad calf.
Cold is the bed without a bedfellow.
Many a good action would have been done, if it had not been for the danger of it.
Your teeth is longer than your beard.


[TD 50]

<gai>305 Is fearr bo no bà, is fearr duine no daoine.

Is i ’n ’Aoine bhagarach a ni ’n ’Satharn a dèurach,
Is òg an Nollaig a cheud oidhche
Is mairg a bhios ga dumhail dian;
Thig gach sumhail gu fhiach.
Is ann a tha ’n cairdeas mar chumar e.
310 Is binn gach gloir o’n duìne bheartach,
’S searbh a choir o’n aimbeartach;
Is cian o’n aimbeartach a bhi glic;
’S mil o n’ bheartach an gabhann.
Is luath ’s is mall comhairle ’n duine.
Is olc a chleth fhearna nach toir bhiadhna do ’n ursainn. (w)
Is fuar gaoth nan coimheach.
Is searbh clàrsair an aon-phuirt.
315 Is coma leis an t-saoghal c’ait an tuit e.
Is tric a thainig trod mor a aobhar beag.
Is beo duine ge d’nach sàthach ’s mairg do ’m bàthiach a bhru.
Is tric a bha beag treubhach. (x)
Is tric a bha mor mì sheaghar.
320 Is tric a bha beag, beag an tóirt.
Is mor a rinn thu dheire air cho bheag da bhrod. (y)
Is baileach a thilg thu clach oirn.
Is mithich a bhi boga nan gad.
Is ioma te chuir càl na dhiosg.
325 Is duine gach oirleach dheth.
Is ann ’n t-am a thig an cruadal a dh’ aì’nichear na cairdin.
Ionladaidh burn salach lamhann.
Is teughaidh fuil no burn.
Is ioma mìr a thug thu do n’ bheul a mhol thu.

330 Is mairg a chuireadh an toiseach a luing thu.


<eng>(w) Similar to “It is a bad stake that will not stand one year in the hedge.”
(x) “A little person may harbour a great soul.”


305 A good cow is better than kine, a good man is better than men.
A Friday that threatens rain makes a rainy Saturday.
Christmas is young on Christmas eve.
Woe to him who is severe;
He who behaves with decency will come at his due.
Friendship is as you keep it.
310 There is melody in every word of the rich;
Justice is harsh in the mouth of the poor;
It is long ’ere the poor be wise;
There is honey in the prating of the rich.
Fast and slow is man’s counsel.
It is but a sorry door, though made of alder, that will not hang one year on the hinge. (w)
Cold is the breath of strangers.
He is but a harsh harper, who has but one tune.
315 Riches care not where they fall.
Oft has great strife come from a small cause.
A man may live, though he cannot get his fill; woe to him who makes a god of his belly.
The little man is often stout. (x)
The big man is often not brave.
320 Oft has the little man been of little account.
You have much bran from so little flour. (y)
You have thrown a stone at us.
It is time to us to steep the withies
Many a mistress has put broth in his plate.
325 He is a man every inch.
It is when misfortune comes, that friends are known.

Foul water makes clean hands.
Blood is thicker than water.
Many a bit you have put in the mouth that praised you.
330 Woe to him who would make you his pilot.


(y) Applied to one who passes too great encomiums on his favourite.


[TD 51]

<gai>Is ann ort a chaidh uisg nan uibhinn. (z)
Is duine dona gun fheum, a chuireadh cuir orm fèin, is caithe.
Is soimich fear fearann, is sona fear ceirde.

Is maith ’n cocair an t-ocras. (aa)
335 Is fearr an cu’ nì miodal riut, no ’n cu ghearras tu.
Is èigin gabhail le each-mall o nach fhaghir an saoidh.
Is mairg aig am bi n tighearna fann,
’S mairg aig am bi clann gun rath;
’S mairg aig am bi ’m bothan bochd,
Ach ’s meas’ a bhi gun olc no math.
Is menmneach gach moch-thraitheach.
Is balbh gach sian ach a ghaoth.
340 Is sgeul eìle sin.
Is math a dh’ ai’nichear fear doimeig air fàir.
Is fearr a bhiadhadh no ionnsachadh.
Is mairg a dh’ àraichidh a laogh gu moilleach is an galar guineach na dhèigh.


<eng>(z) Water in which eggs are boiled is reckoned destructive to the constitution, if true, people should beware of it; this proverb is applied to those that are seized with a fit of illness.
(aa) Alexander Stewart, Earl of Mar, son of King Robert the Third, was defeated by Macdonald, King or Lord of the Isles, at Innerlochie in Lochaber, underwent great hardships after his defeat, getting a little bear meal, of which he made crowdie in the heel of his shoe; he repeated the following lines:
<gai> “Is math an cocair an t-ocras,
Is mairg a ni talcuis air biadh,
Fuarag eorn’ a beul mo bhròige,
’Miadh a b’ fhearr a fhuair mi riamh”
<eng> “Hunger is a good cook, woe to them who despise victuals; bear crowdie in the heel of my shoe, is the sweetest morsel ever I tasted.”


You have got the water from the egg-pan. (z)
He is a pitiful fellow that would invite me to a feast, and make me pay the reckoning.
The landed man is at his ease, and the tradesman is well off.
Hunger is a good cook. (aa)
335 Better the dog that fawns, than the dog that bites.
He must put up with a slow beast who cannot get a better.
It is ill with him whose lord is void of might,
It is ill with him whose child is void of luck;
It is ill with him whose cottage is void of means,
But worse is he who has neither good nor ill.
Sprightly is the early riser.
Dumb is the weather when the wind is silent.
340 That is another tale.
The slut’s husband is easily known on the bleak hill.
He is better fed than taught.
It is folly to pamper a calf that is doomed to disease.


When sculking in the braes of Lochaber, he fell in with a man who lived upon hunting in the woods, where he was kindly entertained, but the most of their cloathing during the night was a cow’s hide; at the Earl’s parting, he desired his host to call upon him when he would hear of his being settled at home; going to the Earl’s place, he was kindly received, and got some lands. When the Earl heard of his being come, he repeated the following lines:

<gai>“Is ionmhuinn leam am fear a tha’ mach,
Ob Irbhin as a Bhreugaich;
Bha mi oidhche na theach,
Air mhoran bìdh is air bheagan aodaich.

<eng>i. e “I love the man who stands without Ob Irvin from the Bregach; I was a night in his house on much food but little cloathing.” Of the above Ob, the Irvins are said to be descended; Irvin of Drum is chief.


[TD 52]

<gai>Is mian le amadan imrich.
345 Is laidir a theid is anmhunn a thig.

Is fad lamh an fheumaich.
Is laidir cuilein ann uchd treoir.
Is minic a thainig comhairle ghlic a ceann amadain.

Is tric a dh’ fhàs fuigheal fochaid, is a mheith fuigheal farmuid.
350 Is tric leis an droch-sgeul a bhi fior.
Is fearr cu beo no leòghan marbh. (bb)

L

LEOGHAIDH a chòir am beul an anmhuinn.
Lamhan leinibh a’s goile seann duine.
Lianar long do shleigin.
Leig an t earbal leis a chraicean.
5 Leathan re leathan,
Is caol re caol;
Leabhar na scriobhar,
Gach focal san t saoghal. (a)
Lèum an gara far an isl’ e.
Lianar bearn mhor do chlacha beag.
Leanaidh bliadhnach ris na sràbhan. (b)
La air mheisg is la air uisg. (c)
10 Leisreach an laimh gun treabhadh.

Leighis air leath a losgadh.
Leann dubh air mo chridhe. (d)
Leig troimh na meuraibh e.
Ludh an spioraid dol timchiol na drochaid.
15 Luighe fad air taobh tighe duìn’ eile.


<eng>(bb) Eccles. ix. 4.
(a) A grammatical rule observed in placing vowels by Gaelic writers.


A fool loves removing.
345 The strong shall fall, and oft the weak escape unhurt.
Long is the hand of the needy.
Strong is the feeble in the bosom of might.
Oft has the wisest advice proceeded from the mouth of folly.
Oft has the object of scorn arrived at honour, and that of envy fallen into contempt.
350 Ill news are often true.
A living dog is better than a dead lion. (bb)

L

JUSTICE melts in the mouth of the feeble.
The hands of an infant, but the stomach of a man.
A ship may be loaded with shells.
Let the tail go with the hide.
5 Broad to broad,
And small to small,
We may read or write,
Every word in the world. (a)
Leap the wall where it is lowest.
A great gap may be filled with small stones.
Lean flesh cleaves to straw. (b)
One day drunk, and another on water. (c)
10 He is a pitiful fellow that has horses and will not use them.
Burning is a singular cure.
I have black water at my heart. (d)
Let it slip through the fingers.
Go about the bridge, as the ghost did.
15 He tarries too long at another man’s fire-side.


(b) Applied to mean or worthless people, who cleave to each other. “Like to like, an old horse to a feal dyke.”
(c) Similar to the dog’s life, “A hunger and a burst.”
(d) Expressive of sadness.


[TD 53]

<gai>Laigh leis an t-sùil, is falbh leis a ghlùn.

Lan beoil a bhiadh, is lan bail a naire.
Ludh ’n t sneachdaidh, tidh’n gun sireadh gun iarriadh.
Linarchd nan lamh ma’n obair, is lianarchd nam bà ma n chugainn.
20 Leig fad an adhstair leis.
Leighis air gach tinn, creamh is ím a chéitein.

M

MIONACH a bheathaich is maoile, air adhaircin a bheathaich a’s bioraich.
Mac bantreabhaich aig bi crodh;
Searrach seann larach air gréith;
Is mada muileir ag am bi min;
Triuir is meanmnaich air bith.
Ma’s breug uam is breag thugan e.
Ma’s dubh ma’s oghar, ma’s donn, is toigh leis a ghabhar a meann.
5 Mire re cuilein cha scuir e gus an scal e.
Ma deir tha n’as lèir leat, deir thu ni is nàr leat.

Ma’s olc am fithich, cha’n fhearr a chomain.
Ma’s math leat sith, càirdeas agus cluain, èisd, faic, is fuirich samhach. (a)
Meallaidh am biadh am fitheach o na chraoibh.
10 Ma’s àil leat a bhi buan, gabh deoch gu luath an deigh ’n uibhe
Ma sheallas bean air a glùn toisgeil, gleidh i leath-sgeul.


<eng>(a) “He who would live in peace and rest, must hear, see, and say the best.”


Lie still with a sore eye, and move gently with a sore knee.
A mouthful of meat, and a townful of shame.
He comes like the ill weather, unsent for.

Many hands make light work, and many cows soon fill the pail.
20 Let him have the length of his tether.
Ramson and May butter will cure every disorder.

M

THE entrails of the blunt beast on the horns of the sharp.
The son of a widow well stocked with cows;
The foal of an old mare in the herd;
And the dog of a miller that has meal;
Three of the merriest things that are.
If it goes a lie from me, it came a lie to me.
Be the kid black, motled, or brown,
The goat loves her own.
5 Play with a puppy, it ends with a howl.
If you tell all you know, you will soon find something to blush at.
If the raven be bad, he is as ill used.
If you wish for peace, kindness and good cheer,
Listen, look and be silent. (a)

Food will entice the raven from his tree.
10 If you with to live long, drink soon after an egg.

If a woman but look in her lap, she will find an excuse.


[TD 54]

<gai>M’as fiach an teachdair is fhiach an gnodhach.

Mol an mona is na ruig e, dimoil a choille is na fàg i.

Millidh aon tarruing an t each, is aon each ’n t seisreach.
15 Millidh an cleas th’ air a fichid, am fichid cleas.

Ma bhuaileas tu cu no balach bual ga math e.
Mhealladh tu ’n t-ubh o’n churr ge d’ bhiodh a da shuil a coimhead riut. (c)
Ma chaidh mi ’n ald cha b’ ann le clùd nan soì’ichin.
Mar bhiodh a’s ma re, cha bhiodh duine beo. (d)

20 Mur bhiodh ma na phoit ach Mac Sheoc ’san liagh.

Mar a’s toigh leis na gabhair na coin.
Ma thuiteas clach as a ghleann ’s ann sa charn a stadas i.
Mar biodh tu m sheomar cha’n fhaice tu mo chuid. (e)

Mian lach an t-uisg air nach bi.
25 Mar chomas duit teumadh na ruisg do dhèudach am feasd.
Millidh airc iasad.
Ma deir mi fein fois thu re mo chu, deir na h-uile fear e.
Ma’s fearail thu na biodh gruaim ort.

Molaidh an t-each math e fein.
30 Mar is mianaich le bru bruichear bonach.


<eng>(b) Analagous to praise the sea, but keep on dry land.
(c) Perhaps it means the heron.


If the bearer be respectable, the message is of importance.
You may extol the bleak hill, but go not thither; you may vilify the wood, but quit it not. (b)
One nail wiil lame a horse,one horse will break a team.
15 A game too many, may spoil the whole.
If you strike a dog or a fool, strike to purpose.
You would cheat the owl of her egg, though both her eyes were upon you. (c)
If I went to the well, it was not with the dishclout.
f it had not been for this, and for that, there would be no man alive. (d)
20 If there were none about the pot but Maceock and the ladle, I would fare better.
As the goats love the dogs.
If a stone fall from the hill, it must rest in the cairn.

If you had not been in my house, you would not have seen my effects. (e)
The duck’s desire is a pool where there are no ducks.
25 If you cannot bite, never shew your teeth.
The necessitous spoils credit.
If I call be gone to my dog, every one else will turn him away.
If you be manly, have no gloom on your countenance, nor see hardships in trifles.
A good horse recommends himself.
30 As the stomach craves, the cake is toasted.


(d) Not unlike “If the lift (firmament) fall, you may gather larks.”
(e) “If ye had not plowed with my heifer, ye had not found out my riddle.” Judges xiv. 18.


[TD 55]

<gai>Màm air an t-sac gun fhèu n.

Mar thabhan coin ris a ghealaich.
Math air seann duine, math air fall duine, is math air leanuibh beag, tri mathan cailte.
35 Mar bha chaillech air Eoghan, dheoin no dh’ aindeòin.
Mar chàireas duin’ a leabaidh, is ann a luigheas e.
Miosnach math a bhriseas an cridhe ’san amh-rath.
Foidhidin mhath a bhriseas an cridhe ’san amh-rath.
Mar thuitis a chraobh is ann a luigheas i.
Ma’s math an t-each is math a dhreach.
40 Mar bha gile moire nam bram, cha’ n fhuirich e thall, is cha’n fhuirich e bhos. (e)
Bòid chiaraig ris na fearaibh, is bòid nam fearaibh uile re ciaraig.
Moch-eirigh ’luain, a ni ’n t-suain ’mhàirt.

Moladh gach fear an t athan mar gheibh e, e.
Mol an la math mo oidche.
45 Ma rinn thu teine math dhuit fein, dean do dheadh ghara ris.
Mian do mhianaibh ’n Iarsalaich, cuibhrinn mhor do na bheagan.
Ma sa fior na breug e, millidh a bean.
Mar bhiodh an reodha, threabhar gach tìr.

Mar e bran is e bhrathair. (f)
50 Moladh na daoidheachd.
Mac matharail is inghean atharail.


<eng>(e) Clark’s answer to Shaw.
(f) Bran was the name of Fingal’s celebrated favourite dog much spoken of in Ossian’s poems, tales, and proverbs.


The handful above the load, is given to those who have the least need of it.
Like a dog barking at the moon.
Good done to the old, good done to the bad, good done to an infant, are three goods cast away.
35 As the old woman came upon Owen, whether he would or not.
As a man makes his bed, so he lies.
Courage is good, when the heart breaks only in extreme distress.
Patience is good, &c.
As the tree falls, so it lies.
If the horse be good, his colour is good.
40 Like the never-do-well, who will neither stay here nor there. (e)
As the swarthy maid foreswore the men, because they would not have her.
Early rising on Monday makes long sleeping on Tuesday.
Let every man praise the ford as he finds it.
Praise the good day in the evening.
45 If you made a good fire for yourself, take a warming by it.
The desire of the covetous, much of little.

True or false, a bad report hurts a woman.
If it were not for the frost, every ground might be laboured.
If it is not bran, it is his brother. (f)
50 Praise from the worthless.
A son like the mother, and a daughter like the father, are accounted the best.


<gai>Casaibh buidh a bh’ air Bran,
Da shlios-dubh is tarr geal;
Druin uain’ air cuillian na seilge,
Cluasa corrach cro-dhearg.<eng>
i. e. Bran had yellow feet, black sides and white tail; green back, and erect ears of a red tinge.


[TD 56]

<gai>Mar is faid a bhios sin gu math is gioraid a bhios sin g’a h-olc.
Ma’s beag leat e crath sonas air.
Ma’n seach a shèidir na builg.
55 Ma cheannachas tu fabh-each ceannaichidh tu ath-each.
Mar is luaith ’s faisge mhoille.
Ma bhios aon chron ’san eolach, biaidh dha-dheug ’san ain-eolach.
Ma’s ceol fidileirichd tha na leòr again di. (g)
Mar thig triubhas do mhuic.
60 Ma tha thu comadh, dean comaidh ris a mhuic.
Ma’s beag mo chos cha mho mo chuaran.
Mar lus an ’dònaich gun mhath na dolaidh ann.

Ma b’ umhail g’am b’ fhior.
Ma’ s olc an leanabh cha’n fhearr a luasga.
65 Mar astar dall an cabaraich,
No im’eachd air garbh leacainnin;
No, mar thabhann gaothair air gleann fàs,
Bitheadh teagas aon, gun eolas.
Ma dh’ eirigheas dhuit bhi air fainneal,
Na cuir earbs’ a comh-radh bannal,
Mar is faid’ a ni thu ’n leanail,
’S ann is mo theid do mhealladh.
Mar fear air charn. (h)
Mar chaitheas duin’ a bheatha bheir e breith air a choimhearsnach.


<eng>(g) Roderick, a famous harper, met with a man who played every tune upon the violin, which Roderick played on the harp, a thing not common in those days, which made the harper repeat the above words, (now become a proverb) meaning that he did not reckon the violin music, but if it was, he had enough of it; hence, when people have a sufficiency of any thing, they repeat this proverb.


The longer we are well, the shorter we shall be ill.

If you think it little, strow luck upon it.
Every one in his turn blow the bellows.
55 If you buy a sorry horse, you will be obliged to buy another.
The more haste the worse speed.
If an acquaintance have one fault, a stranger has twelve.
If there be music in fiddling, you have enough of it. (g).
As the trouser becomes the sow.
60 If you do not care, take a share with the sow.
If my foot be small, my shoe is no bigger.
Like the herb plucked on Sunday, it does neither good nor ill.
As conjectured, so it happened.
If the child be bad, he is no better rocked.
65 As the blind walks in the thicket,
Or wanders in rocky ground,
Or as the dog barks in a deserted valley;
So is it to be teaching a fool.
If by chance thou art bewildered,
Trust not to the words of women,
The greater trust you put in them,
The more you will be deceived.
Like a man upon a cairn. (h)
As a man leads his life, he judges his neighbour.


(h) Alluding to the ancient custom of trying and out-lawing criminals, by putting them upon a cairn, end causing them walk over burning coals, with their bare soles. Thus it means a man out-lawed. Toland. Shaw’s Hist. of Moray, Smith’s Gaelic Antiquities.


[TD 57]

<gai>N

NA ’m bu toigh leat mi cha bu trom leat mi.
Nuar a chi thu bean oileanich, beir oirre, beir oirre, mar beir thus’ oirre, beiridh fear eile oirre.
Na ith ’s na ob cuid an leinibh bhig.
Na dean tàir air n’ as leat, a ni nach leat cha’n e dh’ fhoghnas duit.
5 Na ’m biodh mo chu cho olc ionnsach ruit, b’ e cheud rud a dheanain a chrochadh.
Na innis do rùin do d’ charaid gorach na do d’namhad glic.
Neart teine, neart mara, is neart balaich,

Nimh gun neart, nimh na cuìleig, bheir fuil air a chraicean.
Na dean uail a cuid duin’ eile.
10 Na abair diuc ris an èun gus an tig e as an ubh.

Na toir droch mheas air mac luideagach, no air loth phealagach.
Ni càiliain am fiàcail ìnntin loisnich.
Na sìn do chasan na ’s faide no theid t-aodach. (a)
Na dean bailc air imir math treabhaidh. (b)
15 Na buail ach mar bhiadhas tu.
Na cuir a mach an t-uisge salach gu’s an toir thu stigh an t-uisge glan.
Na cuir do lamh eidir a chlach ’sa scrath. (c)
Na biodh do theangaidh ann do sporan.
Na cuir de choran gun chead ann ’n gart fir eile.

20 Na trèig do shean aodach gus am faidh thu aodach nodha.


<eng>(a) Ne Sutor ultra crepidam.
(b) Ray’s Proverbs.


N

IF you loved me, you would not think me heavy.
When you find an accomplished woman, take her; if you do not, another will.
Neither eat nor reject the child’s bit.
Despise not what is your own, for what is not your own will not suffice you.
5 If my dog were as ill bred, the first thing I would do would be to hang him.
Tell not your mind to a friend that is silly, nor to an enemy that is wise.
The strength of the fire, the strength of the sea, and the strength of a foolish fellow.
Like the feeble effort of a fly, who only pierces the skin.
Boast not of another man’s wealth.
10 Call not chuck to the bird, till it has come from the egg.
Despise not a ragged boy nor a shaggy colt.

A seed in the teeth disturbeth the mind.
Stretch not your feet beyond your covering. (a)
Make no baulks in good arable land. (b)
15 Strike as you feed.
Throw not out the foul water, till you have brought in the clean.
Put not your hand betwixt the stone and its scurf. (c)
Let not your tongue be in your pocket.
Put not your sickle without leave in another man’s field.
20 Forsake not your old clothes till you get the new.


(c) i. e. Not to put friends at variance.


[TD 58]

<gai>Na ’n ithe na coin do dhiot is falbh le do shuipeir cha bhiodh tu cho mear.
Na bi ga shireadh is ga sheachnadh.
Na aireamh a chaoigh ’n t-iasg gus an tig e as a mhuir.
Na gabh boirineach air bith mar mhnai, ach aon air am bi athais agad oirre.
25 Neach a shìneas a lamh, shìneadh e chas. (d)
’Nuar a shaoil thu bhi air muin na muic, ’s ann a bha thu laimh re anns an laib.
Nuair is tinn’ air duin’ is e cheann a cheart mhuineal.

Nuar a chaillis duin’ a stòras, cha’n fhiu a sheòla no chomhairle.
Noidheachd is mo ’m bliadhna ’s e ’s ludh ’n ath-bhliadhna.
30 ’Nuar bhios mise thall gearr an drochaid.
’Nuar is fearr a chluich is fearr scur. (e)
Ni e dhiotsa feùmanach, is ni e dhiomsa brèugach.
Na deanadh duine tuirse ’n earralas gu ’m faidh e cuimse.
Na triuir nach fhuiling criotach, sean a bhean, cearc a’s caora.
35 Nuar theirgis gual teirgidh obair.

Na’n sealladh cu air comain.
Ni lamhan fada cluasan goirid.
’Nuar a bhios a mhuc sàthach cinnidh ’n drabh goirt.
Na dean cugain air feoil dhaoine.
40 Ni Carcair càis ’nuar thèid crodh chàich an diosg.

’Nuar a thig aon ni, thig gach àon ni.


<eng>(d) i. e. He who lendeth must walk to get it back.
(e) Too much of one thing is good for nothing.


If the dogs had eaten your breakfast, and run off with your supper, you would not be so merry.
Do not seek and shun.
Never reckon your fish till they are caught.

Never marry a woman, but one who has some fault.

25 He who stretcheth his hand, must stretch his foot. (d)
When you thought you was riding the sow, you only lay by her in the mud.
When a man is most in straits, his head is the best support.
When a man’s substance is gone, his admonition or counsel is little regarded.
What is great news this year will be none the next.

30 When I have got over, break down the bridge.
When the play is at the best, it is wisest to stop. (e)
He only makes you a tool, and me a liar.
Be not anxious for riches; every one will have the share that is allotted him.
Three that will not bear caressing, an old woman, a hen, and a ewe.
35 When the coals are exhausted, the work of the forge must cease.
If a dog could mind what he owes.
Long hands make short ears.
As the sow fills, the draff sours.
Make no saving from your necessary support.
40 Carcar will make cheese, when other peoples cows run dry.
When one thing comes, every thing comes.


[TD 59]

<gai>Na innis d’ uil’ inntin do d’ mhnai, no do d’ chombanach.
Na abair ach beag, is abair gu math e.

O

ORAN na circe bedidh.
O na rinn mì ’n rèis ni mi ’n oirleach.

Oidhche roimh a bhàs bu choir do dhuin’ athais a thilge. (a)
O’n laimh gus a bheul, cuibhrinn is fearr air bith.
5 Obair an doill.
O na’s tu mharcaich an t each, cruth e.
Olc na cùis gu deire.
Oidhche a mach is oidhche a steach;
Math na caorach is olc an eich.

P

PISEAG air toll, se sin an tairbhe, ach pìseag air pìseig se sin an luireach.
Pic an coimheach.
Pisich math ort.


<eng>(a) To make a satire or proverb.


Tell not all your mind to your wife, nor to your companion.
Speak but little, and speak well.

O

A SONG from the pert hen.
Since I have made out the yard, I’ll make the inch.
The night before he dies, a man may venture to find fault. (a)
From hand to mouth is the best portion.
5 The work of the blind.
Since you rode the horse, shoe him.
Put off evil to the last.
One night out, another in;
Good for sheep, but ill for horses.

P

TO put a patch on a hole is saving, but to put a patch upon a patch is but making a ragged cloak.
Pinch the stranger.
I wish you a good match.


[TD 60]

<gai>RUIGIDH dàil doras.
Rug iasg orm. (a)
Ruithidh an saigeis fein le bruthaich.
Ruigidh ’n ro-ghiulachd air an ro-ghalar.
5 Rùisgidh bru bràgad.
Ruigidh each mall muilen, ’s cha ruig an t each a bhriseas a chnamhan.
Rùin caillich gu ’n trod i.
Roinn a mhic r’a mhathair,
Rug bo laogh dha.
10 Racha e tre tholl toradh gu ni fhaotain.

Ruìn do chridhe air do chuisle.

S

SLIOB am bodach is scròbaidh e thu, buail am bodachi s thig e gu d’ laimh.
Siubhal na samhna dha. (a)
Seachnaidh duin’ a bhrathair, ach cha seachain e choimhearsnach.
Siubhal a chait a cha ’n eas.
5 Slat is treise, no ’n cuaille.
Sireadh seam an connalaich.
Sonas thoirt do chuaille.
Duine toirt a chomhairle.
Far nach gabhar ì uaithe.
Sèididh aon sroin shallach an clachain.


<eng>(a) Said by a person when seized with a fit of sickness.


R

DELAY will arrive at the door.
A fish took hold of me. (a)
Even a haggies will run down the hill.
Good nursing will remove a bad complaint.
5 The belly will strip the back.
A slow horse will make his way to the mill, but the horse that breaks his bones will never get there.
The delight of an old woman is to scold.
The boy’s portion, who shared with his mother.
A cow has brought him a calf.
10 He would pass through a wimble-bore to get any thing.
May your pulse beat as you heart would wish. *

S

STROKE a sorry fellow, and he will scratch you; strike him, and he will come to your hand.
Let him pass as Hallowmas passed. (a)
A man may do without a brother, but not without a neighbour.
As the cat went to the water-fall.
5 A rod will do more than a club.
Like searching for a mote in the stubble,
Or offering blessings to a blockhead,
Is giving advice
Where it will not be taken.
One foul nose will set all the noses in a church a blowing.


* Similar to “I wish you a double portion of your own prayers.”
(a) i. e. Never to return.


[TD 61]

<gai>Sonas an lorg na caithe.
Sand gun sonas eirigh ’n donas da.
10 Sean-fhocal th’ air a ghra
Bòid a bhaird ris a chaistiail.
A bhean sin nach deachas g’a h-iarruidh.
Thug is’ a briathar nach faight’ i. (b)
Seachain an t-olc is seachainidh an t-olc thu. (c)
Suidh gu h-iosal is diol gu h-uasal.
Sop as gach séid. (d)
Suidh gheoidh ann ’n doras tigh an t-seannaich.
15 Sniomhaidh tighearna fearna tuathnach daraich.

Scrèach na muic dol an iolainn. (e)
Sèid na builg Mhic-’ille-Challam,
Muin ’san amar Eoghain.
Sùrd air Suainard, chaidh Ardnamurchan a dholuidh. (f)
Scoiltidh fairmid a chlach. (g)
20 Scoiltidh sùil a chlach.
Scadan gearr gun mhealag gun iuchair,
’S mairg brù ’n d’ theid e.
Seinn fèin riamh ni mholamar,
Am balbh mar na linnte làna;
An sruthan is ea-domhain,
’S e labhras gu dàna.


<eng>(b) i. e. Because none would take her.
(c) 2 Thess. v. 22. “Abstain from all appearance of evil.”
(d) Meaning those who have nothing but what is borrowed, like the daw in the fable.
(e) Because she thinks the time too long.


Good fortune attends the liberal.
Hapless greed ill betides.
10 It is an old saying,
As the bard foreswore the castle,
And the woman that never was asked,
Vowed that none should have her. (b)
Shun evil, and it will shun you. (c)
Sit low and pay high.
A wisp from every truss. (d)
Set like a goose at the door of the fox.
15 A lord made of alder will twist a tenant made of oak.
The cry of the sow on her way to the corn yard. (e)
Blow the bellows, Malcolme,
Fill the trough, Ewen.
Prepare, Suinard; Ardnamurchan is gone to wreck. (f)
Envy will split a stone. (g)
20 An evil eye will split a stone.
The naughty herring without milt or row,
Woe is the stomach that takes it in.
Self praise is no recommendation,
The silent person is like a deep pool;
But shallow waters
Make the greatest noise.


(f) Suinard is an island near Ardnamurchan in Argyleshire; when the latter was burnt, they behoved to prepare Suinard. Hence, when one person desires another to make ready, or begin to any thing, he repeats the above saying.
(g) A superstitious observation of ignorant people.


[TD 62]

<gai>T

THEID barail an duine ghlic fogasg do ’n fhìrinn.
Thainig gille gu Maca-leisg.
Treabhaidh na daoidh, is cha dean na saoidh ach treabh’.
Tapan gòraig air cuigeil criontaig.

5 Theid dubhag re dualchas. (a)
Theb ’s cha d’ rinn cu is meas’ a bha riamh ’san Fheinn.
Thèid dànadas gu droch oilein.
Thèid dùchas an aghaidh nan crag.
Tha am air an achmhasan is tra air a chèilidh. (b)

10 Thiginn gu do choimhead ge d’ bhi tu chònaidh ann an còs craige.
Tuitidh tòin eidir dha chaithir is tigheadas eidir dha mhuinntir.
Trod nam ban ma ’n scarbh is an scarbh air an loch.

Tachairidh daoine ma ’n tachair na cnoic.
Trod a mheasain is a chùl re làr.
15 Tuthadh na h-atha air a mhuillin.
Thig gach uile re h-aois, thig bao, thig boil, thig bas.
Tùs mì-rath mo bheachd,
Ge b’ e aca neach g’a foirm;
An coilich a bhi na thamh,
Is a chearc a bhi dha gairm.
Tha fuasgla cheist aige fein.
Thig math a mulad. (c)
20 Tha chomhairle na cheann fein.


<eng>(a) Ezekiel, xvi. 44. “Behold, every one that useth proverbs, shall use this proverb against thee, saying, As is the mother, so is her daughter.”


T

A WISE man’s conjecture comes near the truth.
A servant is come to the hand of the lazy.
The feeble labour the ground, and the mighty can do no more.
The foolish maid’s wool goes on the industrious one’s distaff.
5 Like mother, like daughter. (a)
Almost killed the game was the worst dog.

Boldness will proceed to ill-breeding.
Blood will mount against the steep rock.
There is a time for reproof, and a time for gossipping. (b)
10 I would visit you, though you lived in a cliff of the rock.
Bottoms fall between stools, and house-keeping goes to wreck between two owners.
The women scolding and disputing who shall have the heron, and the heron wading in the pool.
Men will meet before mountains meet.
The bark of the lap-dog with his back on the ground.
15 The thatch of the kiln transferred to the mill.
Many infirmities attend old age.
It is a sign of bad luck,
When the hen crows over the cock.

The solution of the question is in his own possession.
It is good to have patience. (c)
20 He keeps counsel in his own mind.


(b) “To every thing there is a season, and a time for every purpose under heaven.” Eccles. iii. 1.
(c) “Patience is a plaister for all sores.” Ray’s Prov.


[TD 63]

<gai>Tha car eil’ ann an adharc an daimh (d)
Trèach a muigh is meorach a steach.
Tha tuille ’s a phaidir aige. (e)
Tha fios aig an luch nach ’eil an cat aig an tigh.
25 Toradh na fèadalach gun a faicin.
Tilg mìr am beul a bheist.
Tha thu co bhrèugach is tha ’n luch cho bhradach.
Thig sin as do shroin is theid an cathamh ann.

Thachair cleas tuath an droch thighearna doibh.
30 Tha sinne mar dh’ fhaodas sinn’ is cha ’n eil an righ mar bu mhath leis.
Thig an t-ocras na ’s tric no aon-uair.
Tha fios aig cia meud a theid gu cuig.
Tha’n clamhan gobhlach na measg.
Thilg e ’n cearcal màis.
35 Tha thu co lùrdand ris a bhalgair bheag.
Tha cheann eidir a chliath is an ursainn.
Tha fuil ghointe na cheann. (f)
Teodhaidh feòil re fine ge d’ nach deòin le duine. (g)
Triùir a thig gun iarraidh, gaol, eud is eagal.

40 Tuigidh na h-eoin fein a chèile.
Tha aon saithid a’ bholg.
Tha iasg ’sa mhuir cho math is a thainig riamh aisde.
Tabhair spìd do d’ charaid, is ann air do mhuireil fèin a luigheas e.
Tha e nios air fòid na fìrion.
45 Thig an donas re iomradh. (h)
Tuislichidh an t-each ceithir chasach.

Tha na h-uile fear na leoghan air a chèird fein.


<eng>(d) A man telling that he saw an ox whose horns reached the skies when lying down, being asked how he disposed of his horns when he stood, he answered as above.
(e) Said of a person who is thought to be wiser than others.


There is another twist in the ox’s horn. (d)
Who is valiant abroad, will be gentle at home.
He knows more than his beads. (e)
The mouse knows that the cat is not at home.
25 We have the product, though we do not see the stock.
Give the monster a soup, and let him be gone.
You lie as the mouse pilfers.
That will be squeezed from your nose to make room for the snow drift.
Like the tenants of the bad landlord.
30 We are as well as we may; and the King himself has not all his wishes.
Hunger comes oftener than once.
He knows how many make five.
The glede is among them.
He has thrown the bottom hoop.
35 You are as cunning as the fox.
His head is got between the door and the lintel.
He has fey blood in his head. (f)
Flesh will warm to kin, though man say no. (g)
Three things come unsent for, love, jealousy, and fear.
40 The birds themselves understand each other.
There is one arrow out of his quiver.
There is as good fish in the sea as ever came out of it.
Make a bad report of your kinsman, and it will return on yourself.
He is now on the sod of truth.
45 Evil comes by talking of it. (h)
The four footed horse will stumble, so may the strong and mighty fall.
Every man is a lion at his own craft.


(f) Said of one who is running to mischief, or an infatuated person.
(g) “When friends meet, hearts warm.”
(h) Speak of the Devil and he’ll appear.


[TD 64]

<gai>Tionailidh maoin, maoin, is tionailidh fiachan, fiachan.
Tuil’ as an t-seilbh chèudna.
50 Theagamh gu ’n tig do bho gu m’ bhuail fathasd.
Taoman is mo no ’n long.
Tha caithe sona ’s caithe don’ ann.
Thig an fhìrin a mach le tubaist.
Talach’ air meud a chuibhrinn.
55 Tagh do chomladar ma’n tagh thu t-òl.

Trial a bhodaich o thigh fein. (i)
Thig a mhuir mhor a plumanaich.
Thig Dia re h-airc, is cha’n airc ’nuair a thig.

Tiodhlaic na choinne bige, bhi g’a toirt is g’a grad iarruidh.
60 Tha smùtan fein an ceann gach fòid.
Tha e co phileanta re bard.
Tàgha goirid a ghobhain is tàgha leobhar an t-saoir.
Tha càithe ann is caomhnadh e, tha caomhna ann is caithe, e.
Teisd a choimhearsnaich air gach neach.
65 Tha brì gach cluich na deire.
Tha mi ni ’s eolaich air coille na bhi fo eagal a caillich oidhche. (comhachaig)
Trodaidh na builg fhalamh.
Thig nòs do mhathar as do shroin.
Thachair a bhrathair mor ris.
70 Thachair ludh an uinnsin fhiaghaich dha, cinnidh e gu math, ach meithidh e chraobh a bhios an taice ris.


<eng>(i) The old man’s excuse, or the catle’s haste from home.

<gai>Na falbh di-luan,
’S na gluais’ di-mairt,
Tha diceudain craobhach,
Is tha dirdaoin dàlach;
Di-h-aoine cha’n ’eil e buaighail,
’S cha dual dhuit falbh a maireach.


<eng>Wealth accumulates wealth, and debt accumulates debt.
More mischief befall the same possession.
50 Perhaps your cow may come to my fold yet.
A drop is better than a deluge.
One expence is well, another expence is ill.
Truth will out with a vengeance.
Complain of too great a share.
55 Chuse your company, before you chuse your liquor.
The old man’s haste from home. (i)
The sea itself comes in waves.
God cometh in the time of distress, and it is no more dittress when he comes.
The gift of a child, oft granted, oft recalled.

60 Its own smoke is at the top of every turf.
He is as eloquent as a bard.
The smith’s wald is short, and the wright’s joint is long.
There is a spending that saves, and there is a saving that spends
The neighbour’s word is at every man’s back.
65 The proof of the sport is where it ends.
I know the wood better than to be afraid of an owl.

Empty bladders make the loudest noise.
Your mother’s milk will pass from your nose.
He has met with his elder brother.
70 Like the wild ash, it grows well, but kills the tree that is near it.


i. e. Go not away on Monday, stir not on Tuesday, Wednesday is not fortunate, Thursday is a holy day, Friday is not successful, and it would be unlawful to go to-morrow, (meaning Sunday.)

Some call it the young maid’s request of her wooer whom she did not incline to part with. When a person tarries too long, or delays to do a thing, the above proverb is applied.


[TD 65]

<gai>Taradh math ’sa chuid eile.
Thuit an Tarbh Coill’ orra. (k)
Teirgidh gach ni r’a chaithe,
’S a bhi g’a chaithe gu minic;
Is an ni sin nach caithear,
Ge d’ nach caithear gu ’n teirig;
O theirgis gach ni gun a chaithe
Gramhainn ma’n tig am brath;
Is còir gach ni chaithe,
Ma’n caith’ e fein as a thàmh.
Theid duine gu bàs air scà naire.
75 Thugadh gach fear eoin a cragaibh dha fein. (l)

Toiseach is deire na sìne, clacha mìne meallain.
Teannaich do chrios gus am faigh thu biadh. (m)
Truagh nach bu chàird gu leir sibh an diu. (n)


<eng>(k) i. e. A misfortune befell them. The new year’s bull is a dark cloud, which old men, in imitation of the ancient philosophers, came out to view on new year’s eve, supposing that the ill weather in general comes from that quarter where the cloud rests that evening. Hence the above proverb.
(l) Two men were taking birds from among deep rocks,where the one went down with a rope about his middle, while the other held the end thereof; when the one who caught the fowls thought he had a sufficient quantity for himself, he said to the other, who held the rope, as above; the other quitting hold of the rope, replied, “Let every one hold a rope for himself.”
(m) Said to one who complains of hunger.
(n) Said by the famous warrior Alexander Macdonald, who with a band of Irish accompanied the great Montrose


I wish you good of the rest.
The new year’s bull fell upon them. (k)
Every thing will wear out in the use,
Especially when used often,
Although not used,
It will wear out,
Since every thing then wears out unused,
A while before the end of for ever,
It is therefore proper to put every thing to its use,
Before it wears out of itself unused.
A man will die to avoid shame.
75 Let every man take birds from the rock for himself. (l)
Hail often begins and ends a shower.
Straiten your girdle till you can find meat. (m)
I wish you were all tinkers to day. (n)


in his wars; at one of their battles Macdonald was surrounded by the enemy in a small fold, when one Stewart, a tinker from Athole, came very seasonably to his relief, and, with his broad sword, in an instant cleared the fold of the Covenanters; Macdonald, struck with his bravery, took occasion to ask him what he was? Stewart answered, that he was no man at all, and did not deserve to be named among men; Macdonald replied, that his valour intitled him to some regard, whatever was his situation, and whatever either he or his had done, he had sufficiently atoned for it, and had gained much honour by such a gallant action; Stewart at last told him that he was only a tinker, at which Macdonald replied in the words of the above saying.

The Athole men were Montrose’s principal support; he often passes the highest encomiums upon them, calling them his brave Athole men.


[TD 66]

<gai>U

UBH gun ìm gun salann’n ceann seachd bliadhna thig a ghalar
Ubh na circe duinne dol an tigh-mhor, gun ubh a gheoidh a thoirt as.
Urram a bhleidir do’n stràcair. (a)

Uraireachd na bà mach ’sa steach, mar leighis sin an Gael, cha’n eil a leigheas ann.
5 Uisge donn na duileig, uisge dubh nan fhramh, is uisge glas a chèitein, tri uisgibh is meas’ a th’ ann.

Uir! ùir! air beal Orain ma’n labhair e tuile comh’radh. (b)


<eng>(a) Said of those who scold to such a degree as not to give each other due respect.
(b) It is reported, that in the time of building Icolmkill, “St. Columba received divine intimation to bury one of his companions alive, as a sacrifice necessary to the success of his undertaking. It seems the lots doomed Oran to so dreadful a destiny. Three days afterwards, Columba opened the grave to see what might be the fate of his


U

AN egg without butter or salt, may breed a distemper, though at seven years distance.
The brown hen’s egg gone to the great man’s house, without bringing the egg of a goose in return.
The compliments of the impertinent to the troublesome. (a)
The fat of the cow taken outwardly and inwardly, if it does not cure a Highlandman, he is incurable.
5 The brown water at the fall of the leaf, the black at the springing of the roots, and the grey water of the shoots in May, are the three worst of all.
Earth! earth! on the mouth of Oran, that he may not blab more. (b)


friend. Oran raised his swimming eyes, and said,

<gai>“Cha ’n ’eil am bàs na iongantas,
No ifrinn mar dh’ aithrisear.
<eng>“There is no wonder in death, and hell is not as it is reported.”

The saint was so shocked by such sentiments, that he called out in a great hurry, in the words of the above proverb.


[TD 67]

<gai>LEASACHADH.

A

AN uair is Cèudnaich an t samhainn,
Is iarcainich fir an domhain. (a)
Am fear a chuireadh a chorag ann mo shùil, chuirin mo ghlùn na chliabh.
An cuirm is luaith a bhios ulamh suidhimid uile g’a ghabhail.
Am feur a thig a mach ’sa mhairt, theid e stigh ’sa Ghiblin. (b)
An t-ubh is an t eun do na Ghael, agus an cac is am mùn do na Ghall. (c)

B

BIDHIDH dùil re fear fairg, ach cha bhi dùil re fear reilge.
Biodh tu co fad gleusadh do phiob is a Sheinneadh fear eile port.
Bha ’n tidhinn saoghail aige.
Bu dual do laogh an fheigh ruith a bhi aige.


<eng>(a) Because it portends a severe winter.
(b) Meaning, that whatever is premature in its origin, falls off before it arrive at perfection.


ADDENDA.

A

WHEN hallow-day falls on Wednesday,
The world is full of complaints, (a)
He who would put his finger in my eye, I would put my knee in his side.
The fare that is soonest ready, we all sit down to take.
The grass that is sprung in March, will creep in in April. (b)
The egg and bird to the Celt, and the dung to the Lowlander. (c)

B

A MAN may be expected from sea, but not from the grave.
You’ll be as long tuning your pipe, as another might play a tune.
His time was not come.
The young deer takes it of kind to be swift.


(c) Meaning the Soland geese who lay their eggs and bring out their young in the north, and go south again in harvest.


[TD 68]

C

<gai>CINNIDH Clann Fhearchair gus an deiche lìne. (a)

Car tuathal t-aimh-leas.
Cha’n iongna bola nan scadan a bhi do an t soitheach ’sam bi iad.
Ceann mor air duine glic is cean circ air amadan.


<eng>(a) The Farquharsons are also called Clann Fhionla, i. e. The children of Finlay, from Finlay More, one of their tall chieftains who bore the royal standard at the battle of Pinky; hence the sirnames, Finlay, Mackinlay, and Finlayson.

The Farquharsons are descended of Farchard Shaw, son or Shaw or Dalnafert; the present Farquharson of Innercauld, their chief, seems to deny this, and pretends that they are descended of Macduff, Thane and afterwards Earl of Fife, for which assertion neither he nor any other can shew vouchers. It is well known, that he is the tenth generation from the above Farquhard Shaw, son of Shaw of Dalnafert, of the family of Rothemurchus; Farquharson of Balmurrel, who disputes the chieftainship with Innercauld, owns this descent, as do all the rest of that warlike clan.

The late Reverend Mr. Lauchlane Shaw, minister of Elgin, in his genealogy of the Shaws of Rothemurchus, is doubtful of the time of their coming to the north, “probably about the beginning of the 14th century,” says he; but neither his conjecture, nor that of Innercauld’s, will avail, since we have authentic documents to the contrary. The absurdity of tracing the Shaws and Farquharsons otherwise, will appear by the following extract from the records of the family of Macintosh, viz. A lease (from Andrew Bishop of Moray, who founded the Cathedral of Elgin) of the lands of Rothemurchus, to Shaw Macin-


C

THE Farquharsons shall flourish till the tenth generation. (a)
You took the unfortunate left-about course.
No wonder to find the smell of herring in the cask they are in.
A large head on a wise man, and a hen’s head on a fool.


tosh, son and heir of William Macintosh of that Ilk, anno 1236; the above Shaw lived in Rothemurchus, during his father’s life-time, as did also his son and heir Ferquhard; who died in 1265, and was succeeded by his eldest son Angus Macintosh of that Ilk, a minor at the time of his father’s death. During his minority, the Cumings seized upon his estates of Meikle Gedes and Rait, &c. which were again recovered in the time of King Robert Bruce. Angus Macintosh of that Ilk, was succeeded by his eldest son William, 1346, and obtained a new lease of Rothemurchus, from Pilmer, Bishop of Moray, dated 10th March, 1347.

From the above extract, it is evident, that the Macintoshes some of whom were afterwards called Shaw, were in possession of Rothemurchus, before and after the period Mr. Shaw supposses the Shaws to come to the north; a dagger pointing downwards, part of the Shaws arms, (alluding to their cutting off the Cumings), was assumed from the Macintoshes killing the Cumings in their own castle of Rait. See note upon the letter C; for the Shaws were not a distinct clan from the Macintoshes at that time, but assumed that designation from Shaw Macintosh, their ancestor, who cut off part of the Cumings as above; the late Sir John Shaw of Greenock, owned his descent from the Macintoshes; Shaw and Farquhar is a frequent patronomic still among the Macintoshes. Pennant Macintosh. Douglas Baron.


[TD 69]

<gai>Cha mhillear maith re h olc dhiubh.

Cha toir an donas an car asda.
Choir thu ceann paib air ma dheire. (b)
Chuir e chrodh air àireachas.
Cha dean thugain cèum, is cha do chailear theab. (c)
Cha leugha ceann no mutha cèile.
Cha cheil e nì a chi no chluinneas e.
Cha robh bàs fir gun ghràs fir.
Cho laidir re Cu-chullainn.
Cha’n ’eil eidir an t amadan is an duine glic, ach g’a ’n ceil an duine glic a ruin is g’a ’n innis an t amadan e.
Cha do chuir a bhun ris nach do chinnich leis.
Cha racha tu co deis air mo ghnothachsa.
Cha luigh na siantaibh anns na speuraibh (d)

D

DH’ ithe na caoraich an cuid troimh. (e)
Dean àth a’s muilinn deth.

E

EIDIR na sruthaibh. (f)
Earrach fad an deigh Chàisg.

F

FANAIDH Muisian re latha.
Fear an t saoghail fhada,
Cha bhi baoghal thuige.


<eng>(b) Said of those who destroy all the good they have done by an ill deed.
(c) Said of one who is very tardy in his motions.


There are none of them good enough to mend the ill with.
The Devil will not get the better of you.
You have made a dirty end of it. (b)
He has put his kine a grazing.
A coming will not step, neither is almost lost. (c)
Heads are not more numerous than sense is variable.
He cannot conceal what he hears or sees.
The death of one man gives luck to another.
He has the strength of Cuchullin.
The difference betwixt a wise man and a fool, consists in this, that the wise man conceals his mind, and the fool reveals it.
Success must attend those who bravely struggle.
You would not go so readily on my errand.
The storm will not remain in the clouds. (d)

D

THE sheep might eat their meat through it. (e)
Make a kirk and a mill of it.

E

BETWIXT the streams. (f)
Too long a spring after Easter, is an ill sign of the season.

F

THE Devil will wait his day.
Nothing can cut off the long liver till his time come.


(d) i. e. It must fall some time or other.
(e) Said of thin cloth.
(f) Said of a bad situation.


[TD 70]

<gai>G

GLOIR nan caraid a’s milse na ’n deoch a thig le brìdh o’n mhil.
Greas’ an eich is e na ruith.
Gheibhear laoigh bhreac bhallach ann tigh gach àirich, la fhil Pairic earraich.
Gaoth a deas, teas a’s toradh,
Gaoth an iar, iasg is bainne;
Gaoth a tuath, fuachd is gaillinn,
Gaoth an ear, meas air chrannaibhe. (a)

I

IS olc an teangaidh is luaith na ’n teine.
Is brathair do na mhad’ am meirleach.
Is nì air leath cè doirte.
Is fearr a chlach no bhi gun mhathach.
Is brathair do ’n diosg an tuarn-fhear.
Is i bho fein is luaith a bheathaicheas d’ a laogh.
Is fearr an toit no ghaoth a tuath.
Is fearr a chlach gharbh d’ an gabhar rud-eigin, no chlach mhìn do nach gabhar dad idir.

Is e leanaibh fein is luaith a bhaistis an sagart.
Is còir comhairle fir an tigh a ghabhail.
Is furas fuine dheanamh laimh re mín.
Is mi mo shuidh air cnocan nan deur,
Gun chraicinn air meur no air bonn;
A righ ’sa Pheadar ’sa Phòil!
Is fad an Roimh o Lochlong. (b)
Ithear cruach na breacagan.
Is mine mín no gràn,
Is mine mnà no fir.


<eng>(a) An old observation on the weather on New-year’s eve.
(b) Said by Muirich Albanach a pilgrim, after he had travelled all the way from Rome barefooted to the head of


G

THE praise of friends is sweeter than honey.

Spurring a horse while it gallops.
Pye-balled calves may be seen in every grazier’s byre on St. Patrick’s day.
Wind from the south, denotes heat and plenty.
Wind from the west denotes fish and milk.
Wind from the north denotes cold and storm.
Wind from the east denotes fruit on trees. (a)

I

IT is an ill tongue that is swifter than fire.
The thief is brother to the mastiff.
Spilt cream is a thing by itself.
A stone in place of manure, is better than nothing.
The turner is brother to the dish.
The cow salutes her own calf first.
Smoke is better than the north wind.
The rough stone from which something may be had, is better than the smooth stone from which we obtain nothing.
The priest baptizes his own child first.
We ought to take the goodman’s advice.
It is easy to bake beside meal.
I sat on the knoll of tears,
Without skin on my fingers or soles;
O King Peter and Paul!
Rome is far from Lochlong. (b)
A stack may be eaten in cakes.
Meal is smaller than grain,
Women are smaller than men.


Lochlong in Argyleshire, where he sat down, and repeated the above.


[TD 71]

<gai>Is ioma caochla thig air an t saoghal fa cheann bliadhna.
Is mairg a’s mathair do-mhac a bao ’nuair is Diardaoin a Bhealltuinn.
Is bla anail na mathar.
Is laidir tabhan coin is cà na bhroinn.
Is fearr sneachd ’sa Cheiteàin no bhi gun uisg.

M

MAR gu ’n tige saithid a bogha.
Mar g’am biodh an tein’ air do chraicinn.
Ma bhios mi beo beirim mac,
Gheibh mi fear ge d’ nach co’-dheas,
O ’si mo mhathair nach beir mac,
Is e mo bhrathair mo roghainn. (a)
Na ’m faighear ceud sagart gun bhi sanndach,
Cèud tail-fhear gun bhi sunndach,
Ceud greasuich gun bhi brèugach,
Ceud fitheadair gun bhi bradach
Ceud gobhainn gun bhi pàiteach,
Agus ceud caillich nach robh riamh air chèilidh, chuiridh iad an crùn air an righ gun aon bhuile.
Mar bha Oisiain an deigh na ’m Fiann. (b)
Na seachain an iorguill is na iar i. (c)

T

THIUT a dha laimh re thaobh.
Tha e nios air slighe na fìrinn.
Tha da thaobh air bean a bhaille.


<eng>(a) A woman who had her husband, her brother, and her son in prison, was desired to chuse one of the three, who was to be released to her; she repeated the above; for which natural affection for her brother, she obtained the release of the whole.
(b) Ossian, the renowned Celtic bard, was the son of


Many changes may happen during the year.

Woe is the mother of a son, when Beltein falls on Thursday.
Warm is the breath of the mother.
A dog barks well when his belly is full.
Better to have snow in May than to want rain.

M

As swift as an arrow from a bow.
As if the fire had been on your skin.
If I live I may have a son;
I may get a man though not so ready;
Since my mother will bear no more children,
My brother is my choice. (a)
If a hundred priests could be found without avarice,
A hundred taylors without pride,
A hundred shoemakers who could not equivocate,
A hundred weavers who could not steal,
A hundred smiths who could not drink,
And a hundred old women who never gossipped,
They would crown the king without a blow.
Like Ossian who survived the Fingalian heroes. (b)
Neither search for the battle nor shun it when it comes. (c)

T

HIS hands fell to his side.
He is now on the way of truth.
The goodwife of the house has two sides.


Fingal king of Morven.—For further accounts, see Mr. Macpherson’s translation of Ossian’s poems, Mr. Smith’s Gaelic Antiquities, Encyclop. Brit. under the article Ossian. See also description of his grave in Gillies’s Day’s Journey to the Highlands.
(c) Fingal, book 3d.


[TD 72]

[Blank]


[TD 73]

[The following Gaelic translation of the WAY TO WEALTH, by Dr. Franklin, is subjoined at the desire of the EARL OF BUCHAN, with an address to the Inhabitants of the Highlands of Scotland, by his Lordship.]

<gai>AN T SLIGHE CHUM SAI’-BHRIS;
Le OLUDH * FRANCLIN.

Eidir theangaicht’ o’n Bheurla chum gaidhlig, air iartas a’ mhor-uasail Oirdheirc, Iarla † Buchan, le R. MAC-PHARLAIN.

Daibhi Seanscal † Earr-scian, Iarla Buchan, Do Ghaidheil Ghaisgeal na h Alba.

A Threun Laoch mo dhu’cha, Mar a b’i m’ uaill do ghna, bhi toirt fanear d’ar fuil a’ruidh ann mo chuislibh, b’e mo mhian a dhearbha gach am, agus mo dhaimh a nochda, ’N uair a fhuair sibh air ais bhur sean truscan fearail, bu mhi a cheud neach a chur suas è, san du’-ghaltachd, ann am sneachd agus geal-fhionn, agus anois ’ntra chi mi cuid choslais, suim a bhi aig’ na sasganaich d’ ar tairbh, agus oirp’ air iasgachd, agus Eallana’ a chur air cois’ ’n ar duthaich, cuiream d’ ar ’n ionnsuidh beagan do shean bhriathra briogh mhór r’an cur ann clar leis na gna-fhocail, ’taid air a chuid as mo air an tabhairt a leabhar an || aos-duin’ ghlic Franklin o America, Feadaidh iad bhi tarbhach dhuibh thaobh gliocas, agus gniomhachd shaoghalt’; agus mu chuireas sibh re so, Creidimh ann Josa Criost, eolas De, agus a ghradh agus eagal ann bhur croidhe, agus ann bhur beusaibh, fagaidh iad ’n ar sluagh measail agus sonadh sibh.

Slan-leibh.


* Oileanach no fear Teagaisg.
† Bog-ean.
‡ Stiobhard.
|| Sean-duine.


[TD 74]

AN T SLIGHE CHUM SAI’-BHRIS,

A LEAGHOIR SHUAIRCE.

CHUALAS nach toir ni air bith urad toilintinn do ughdar, ’sa bheir bhi ag faicsin a sgriobhaidh g’an luadh gu measail le cach. Breithnigh ma seadh, cia mòr an tlachd a ghabh mi an ni eigin ataim r’a aithris dhuit. Stad mi air an t sligh o cheann ghaoirid, far ann roibh mor shluadh cruinn chum, tairgse air bathar marsontachd. Mar nach d’ tainig uair na reic, bha iad ag cainnt ma olcas na tioma; agus labhair aon dhiubh re sean duine, ceanalta coir, sa chiabha air glasadh. ‘Athair Aoighneas, guidheam, ciod i do bharail air na h amaibh so, nach toir no tròm chise so tur sgrios air an duthaigh, cionnas is uradh sinn a chaoidh an iocadh. Sheasamh sean Aoighneas suas, agus fhreagair é, ma ghabhar mo chomhairlese bheiream dhuibh i an briathra, aith ghear, oir is leoir focal do ’n dream ata glic (mar a deir Eoghan Tiarmail) dh’ aontaigh iad le cheile ag iarruidh air a smuainte a labhairt, agus air cruineacha’ dhoibh ma thimchioll, thionsgain se mar leanas.

Mo chairdibh, deir eisean, tha chain ro throm, agus am b’ iad sin amhain ata ’n t uachdaran a’ cur oirn’ a bh’ aiginn r’a iocadh, b’usadh dhuinn gu mòr ain dioladh; ach ata mòran eil’ againn, agus iad sin n’as ro chruaidhe air cuid aguinn, ata sinn da-fhilt air bhur ciosach le’r diomhanas, tri-fhealt, le’r n uabhar, agus a cheithir urrad le’r n aimeadachd, nithe o nach urradh luchd tional na ciosa ar fuasgladh le luigse a thabhairt. Ach eisdeamaid re deagh chomhairle agus feadaidh sinn leasach fhaghail; ni Dia congnamh leosan a ni congamh leo fein, mar a deir Eoghan Tiarmail.

Mheasamaid gu bu churaidh an t uachdaran a dh’iarruidh an deachamh cuid d’ ar ’n uine mar chìs,


[TD 75]

chum a caitheamh na obair fein; ach a ta faonais a cuibhreacha iomadh dh’ inn moran n’as mo; mar a ta lunndaireachd a’ tarruing easlaint, a ta leisg, mar mheirge ag searga n’as luaithe na saothair, ’n uair a bhios an eochair a ghnathair sior dhealrach, mar a deir Eoghan Tiarmail, ach an toigh leat beath ma’seadh na struith t aimsir oir is i sin a ni d’ am bheil beatha air a deanamh suas, mar a deir Eoghan Tiarmail. Nach ’eil sinn a caithe moran tuille d’ ar ’n uin’ ann an codal na ’ta feumail, ag dio’-chuimhneach nach glac sionnach codalach cearcan, agus gu ’m bi codal gu leor anns an uaigh, mar a deir Eoghan Tiarmail.

Ma’s i ar n uin’ a ni’s luachmhoir a ta againn, ’se a bhi struithe ar ’n uin’ an ana caithe is mo mar deir Eoghan Tiarmail, oir, mar a dubhairt e ’n ait’ eile. An aimsir a chaileir cha’n fhuighear gu brath; agus a ni ris an abair sinn uine gu leor, chi sinn gur leor a giorrad, uime sin mosglamaid chum a bhi gniomhach, agus sin da rireadh; mar so le bhi dichiollach ni sinn moran le na’s lugha smuairen tha lunndaireach ag fagail gach ni do dheanta, ach tha bhi gniomhach ’gan deanamh furas, oir an ti a lugheas sa mhadain, ’s eigin dha ruidh feadh an la, agus ’s gann a ghlacas e ghnothach aig oidhche, feadh sa ta leisg aig trial co mall, is gu ’m bheil bochdain do ghna aig a sàil, sduir do ghnothach agus na sduireadh e thu, oir trathlam luidhe is thrathail dean eirigh, ni so duine fallain saibheir is criona, mar a deir Eoghan Tiarmail.

Ciod ann feum a bhi guidheamh, agus re dochas airson amaibh is fearr; feadaidh sinn na h amaibh a leasacha’ ma bhios sinn gniomhach, cha’n fheum dichioll bhi mianach, agus an ti thig beo air dochas bàsaich e na chodal, cha’n ’eil buanachd gun saothair, dean congnamh le d’ lamha, oir ata thu gun fhearann, no ma ta se agad; ata e fui’ throm chìs, a neach aig’ am bheil eallaidh tha oisig tairbh agus onoir aige, mar deir Eoghan Tiarmail, ach ’s eigin a cheird a chur


[TD 76]

ann cleachduin, an eallaidh a leantuin gu teann, air atharach, cha’n iochd an oighreachd na ’n dreachd na cisibh, ach ma bhios sinn gniomhach, cha bhi sin fui’ easbhuidh, feadaidh ocras amharc a steach air doras an duine ghniomhaich, ach cha bhi chroidh’ aige dol a stigh; ni mo theid maor no fear agairt a steach, oir diolaidh saothair ain-fhiach, an t am a mheadaicheas an earbs’ iad. Ciod ge nach d’ fhuair thu ulaidh, agus ge nach d’ fhag caraid soaibhear dilib agad.

Bheir dichiol deadh thoradh, agus beannnuighe Dia am fear gniomhach, mar so treabh gu domhain, an feadh choidleas an luiristeadh, agus bitheadh arbhar agad r’a reic, agus r’a thasgaidh. Dean obair fhad sa theirer an diugh ris, oir cha’n ’eil fios agad ciod an grabadh thig a’ maraich; oir is fearr aon diugh na da mhàireach, mar deir Eoghan Tiarmail, na cuir dail gus a’ maireach san ni dheadar a dheanamh an diugh: am bu mhuintearach thu nach bu nàir leat gu’m fuigheadh deadh mhaighistir a’ d’ thamh thu, a bheil thu a’d’ mhaighistir ort fein, agus nach nair leat bhi diomhain ’n uair a tha na h urrad r’a dheanamh air do shon fein, airson do theaghluigh, do dhuthcha, agus do riogh. Laimhsich do bhuill acfuin lamhruisgte, Cha ghlac cat le lamhghar luchaibh, mar deir Eoghan Tiarmail. Is fior gu’m bheil moran r’a dheanamh, ach theagamh gu’m bheil thu lag lamhach, ach greimich gu teann agus chi thu mor thairbh; caithe sith shile na clochan; le foighidin is dichioll ghearr an luch ball na luinge agus leigibh builibh beag ard darach.

Saoilim gu ’n cluinn mi cuid agaibh ag radh, nach fead duine cuid aitheas a lui’easach a r fein? Innseam dhuit a charaid, ciod a thuirt Eoghan Tiarmail, Caith t aimsir gu maith m’ as aill leat righeachd air aithis; agus, o nach ’eil thu cinntich a mionoid, na diom-buil uair. Ata am na h aithis, air son ni eigin tarbhach a dheanamh, agus gheabh an duine gniomhach so, ach cha’n fhuigh an leasgan a chuidh


[TD 77]

i, oir is da ni beatha aitheasach, agus beatha lunndach, ata móran lèr b’ aill teachd beó le ’n crion-sheóltachd as eagmhuis saothar, ach ’ta iad a dol a thaoibh le dibheil storais; ’n uair ata saothair, ag treoracha’ chum sòlais, pailteas, agus urram. Seachain subhachas, agus leanaidh i thu. Bithidh pailteas anairt aig’ an deagh shniomhaich, agus anois o tha caoirigh is buar agam, cuire gach neach failt’ or ’m.

II. Ach le’r trom-shaothair ’s eigin dhuinn mar an ceadna, bhi daingean, suighichte, agus curamach, agus amharc air ar gnothaiche le’r suilibh fein, gun mhór earbsa, chuir ann cach eile; mar a deir Eoghan Tiarmail.

Cha ’n fhás a chraobh a shith luaisgeàr,
Na’ n teaghlach a shith ghluaiseir.
Co maith, riu sin a dh’ fhanas nan dualchas.

Ta tri imrichean co olc re teine, agus Gle do threud, is gleidheadh do threud thu,’ a ris ma ’s aill leat rath air do ghnothach, bi mu chùl; mar aill, cuir neach eil’ ann, agus a ris.

An ti le ’r b’ aill buanachd le crann, Feumaidh e chumail no dol ’se cheannn; agus a ris ni maighistir tuille gniomh le shuil, na ni e le dha laimh, agus a ris a ta neo-churam n’as cronaile no ain-eolas, is co tearuinte dhuit do sporan fhagail fosgailt aig do luchd oibridh, sam fagail gun suil thairis orra, tharruing moran earbsa re dream eile sgrios air iomadh neach; cha’n earbsa ach a dhi, theasruigeas daoine thaobh nithe na beatha so, oir ma’s aill leat muintearach tairis agus neach is toigh leat, seas fein san aite, feadaidh dearmad beag teachd gu mor-chron, chaille a chru le di tarruinge, agus an t each le di cru, agus a marcaich le di-bhuil eich; oir ghlaca, agus mharbha’ e le naimhde, agus thachair so uile, le di curam ma tharruing crutha.

III. An urrad so mo chardaibh mu shaothair, agus ma


[TD 78]

churam m’ar gnothaiche, ach ’s eigin dhuinn caomhna a chur riu sin am b’ aill leinn toradh bhi air ar saothair, oir mar aithne do dhuine a ni gheibh e chaomhnadh, bithidh a cheann san talamh r’a bheo, agus eagfuidh e tur fhalamh fa dheoidh. Ni bord sòghmhor tiomnadh tanna, agus,

O na sguir na mnaibh le burn Tea o shniomh, is ò chardamh,
Agus na fir le deoch laidir, o sgathadh so spealgadh,
’S iomadh oighreach a struidhe ann am bhi gan carnadh,

Ma’s aill leat bhi saibhir dean caomhn’ air do theagradh, cha do chuir na h-Innsidh re beartas na Spainn, do bhri gu bheil i cuir a mach tuille sa tha è toirt a steach, sguir m’ seadh do d’ struidhe gorach, is cho bhi urrad abhair agad bhi gearan air cruadhas na tioma, trom-chìse agus teaghlach struidheil. Fagaidh,

Fion agus mnai, cluich agus cealg; an storas caol san uir-easbhui trom, Osbar, a nì a shasuicheas aon du-bhailc bu leor a thogbhail dias chloine, theagamh gu’n smuaìntich sibh gur beag an dearas, cupan tee, no gloine do dheoch laidir, air uaire, teachd-an-tir na’s struidheile, truscan na ’s rimhich, agus cuideachd chroidheàl, ach cuimhnigh gu ’n deanar carn mor do chlocha beag, thugaibh an aire do ’n t shior chostas bheag, ’Sluigeadh toll beag an long mhòr mar deir Eoghan Tiarmail, agus a ris, iadsan le’r mian nithe milis thig iad gu deirce, agus osbar. “Ni amadain feusdan, agus ithe daoine glic iad.”

Ata sibh cruinn ann so mu reic na nithe rimhich, agus air fican, facan, (no nithe faoin) their sibh goireas riubh, ach mar d’ toir sigh fanear, fasaidh iad nan daorais dhuibh, saolibh sibh gu’n reicir saor iad, agus theagamh gu’n tachair so, gu’m bi iad na’s aithsich na cheannaighe iad, ach mar ’eil feum agaibh orra tha iad daor dhuibhse, cuimhuich ciod a thuirt Eoghan Tiarmail. “Ceannaich a ni air nach ’eil feum agad,


[TD 79]

agus cha’n fhada gus an reic thu a ni tha feumail dhuit.” Agus a ris, smuaintich ma’n tairg thu air mor luach peighin, se seagh dha gu bheil e saor thaobh coslas a mhain, agus nach ann da rireadh, gu bheil am bathar le bhi gu d ’chuibhreach a d’ ghnothach fein, a deanamh cron dhuitse, oir mar thuirt e ’n ait’ eile, “Tha moran air an creacha le bhi ceannach sàr chunnarach,” agus a ris, “Is aimeadach a bhi cur amach airgiod a chéannach aìthreachais;” agus gidheadh tha ’n aimeadachd so ga cuir an cleachdain gu tric air na margaibh so, le bhi dio-chuimneach a mhiosachain ata iomadh neach le trusgan rimhich air an druim, aig trial le ocras na’m bolg, agus an teaghlach dol air udall. “Ata sioda is sròal, purpuir is bhelbheid, aig bathadh an teine san teallach,” mar deir Eoghan Tiarmail, cha’n iad sin nithe feumail na beatha ’s gann a dh’ fheudar goireas a radh ruibh, gidheadh do bhri gu bheil iad ciatach, ata moran ag iarruidh nan deigh, ach leo sin agus le struidhealachd eile, ata daoine modhail snasmhor aig teachd gu bochdain, agus am feum coinghioll a ghabhail o’n dream air an d’ rinn iad di-meas, dream le’n saothair, agus le ’n caomhnadh a ghle an creideas gu seasmhachd; & ann sa chàs so, ata i soilleir, Gur airde tuathnach na sheasamh, no duin’-uasal air a ghluinibh, mar a deir Eoghan Tiarmaill. Theagamh gu’n d’ fhagadh oighreachd bheag aca, agus nach riobh fhios aca cionnas a fhuaradh i, agus saolaidh iad gur e’n la e, agus nach tig an oidhche; nach fhiach beagan a chaithe, na h urrad suim a ghabhail dheth, ach le bhi sior thoirt as a chiste mhine gun dad a chuir na h aite, ruigidh tu h iochdar re luathas, mar a dubhairt Eoghan Tiarmail, a ris, ’n tra thraoigheas an tobar bithidh fios air luach an uisge, ach dh’ fheadadh fios so a bhi aca roimh lamh, an gabhadh iad a comhairle, ma’s aill leat fios air luach airgiod fhaghail, feuch re iasachd a ghabhail, Oir an ti theid air iasachd theid e air bron, mar a deir Eoghan Tiarmail, agus gu dimhim,


[TD 80]

tarlaidh mar so do ’n ti a bheir iasachd d’ an leithid sin, an nuar a theid e ga iarruidh a ris, oir mar deir eisean ann ait’ eile.

’S cinnteach gur mallachd uaill mhian an truscain, Na seall air do mhian gus an seall thu do sporan, a ris iarruidh uabhar, co dian re uir-easbhui’ agus se moran is meo-mholadh an tra cheannaighis thu aon ni rimhich, ’s eigin dhuit deich eile cheannach, chum ’s gu’m bi gach ball a reir a cheile, ach mar deir Eoghan Tiarmail, “Is usadh a cheud togradh cheusachd, na gach aon a leanas a shàsuchadh,” agus is co amaideach do ’n dream a ta bochd bhi tairgse daoine beartach a leantain as do ’n losgain bhi seide suas chum bhi cosmhuil ris an damh, “Feadaidh long mhor, trial sa chuan fharsaing, ach feumaidh soitheach beag snamh dlu do ’n chladach,” ach ata ghòirich so ga tric air a smachdach r’a luathas, ata ’n uaill a ni dinneir air diomhanas ag deanamh suipeir air tarcuis, “Ghabh uabhar a bhiadh maidne le pailteas, a dhinneir le gainne, agus a shuipeir le mi-chliu,” agus na dhiaigh so uile ciod am feum ata san uaill bhòsdail so, leis am bheil na’ h urrad g’a chuir an cunntart, na h urrad g’a chall, cho treoraich e chum slainte, cho lughduich e cradh, cho mheudaich e deadh-bheus duine, ata e togbhail formaid sa ghreasadh truaighe.

Ach cia mòr an cuthach bhi ruidh ann ain-fhiach air son nithe thar feum, ’ta dail leath bhliadhn’ ga thairgse san reic so, agus thèagamh gu’n d’ thug sin air cuid aguinn teachd ann so, do bhri nach’eil’ airgiod ullamh aguinn, agus si ar duil gu’m bi sinn rimheach as eagmhuis. Ach O! Smuaintigh ciod è tha thu deanamh le bhi ruidh an ain-fhiach, tha thu cur do shaorsa ’n comas neach eile mar urra thu do la paighe fhreasdal, is nair leat am fear-fiacha amharc san aodan; bitheadh geilt ort ’n tra’ labhras tu ris, cia diblidh’ faoin agus truagh, gach leith sgeul, agus a chuid, chuid caìlleadh thu t onoir ’s do chreideas, agus tuiteadh tu gu taireil calg-dhireach


[TD 81]

am breugan; is è cheud, chron tuiteam ann ain-fhiach; is e ’n ath chron bhi breugach, mar deir Eoghan Tiarmail, agus a ris air an doigh sin fein, marcaighe na breugan air druim an ain-fhiach; na àite so thigeamh do’n fhior ghaidheil, a ghnuis a nochdadh, agus labhairt gu saor ris gach aon duine, gun aghadh no naire. Ach ’s tric a ruisg bochduin duine do gach gleus agus deagh-bheus. ’Ta e cruaidh air sporan fallamh seasamh’ direach, Ciod a bharail a bhi aguibh mu Phrionsa na uachdaran, a dh’ fhuagradh mach reachd, a thoirmeasg dhuit, sgeuducha mar dhuin’-uasal, no bean-uasal, am paineachas gaintir no traillealachd? Nach abradh tu gu ’m bu duine saor thu; gu roibh coir agad air an sgeuducha bu roghnuighe leat, gu ’n roibh an reachd sin ann aghaidh do choir bhreith, agus gu roibh an tuachdaran ain-tighearnail, gidheadh tha’ thu dol gu d’ chuir fein fui’ aintighearnas, ’n tra tha thu ruidh ann an ain fhiach, air son a leìthid sin do sgeuducha? Ata ughdaras aig’ t fhear fiacha, ’n uair is aill leis do chuir am priosun re d’ bheo’, mar ’eil e d’ chomas dlighe dheanamh ris. ’N uair a gheibh thu do luacha peighin, theagamh gu ’m bheil beag suim agad mu dhioladh; ach mar their Eoghan Tiarmail “’S fearr cuimhn’ an luchd tagraidh, nan luchd ain-fhiach.” Ata ’n luchd fiacha cosmhuil re luchd saobh-chreidimh, geur mhothachail mo laithe araid, agus ma amaibh suidhighte. Thig an la m’an cuairt man toir thu fanear, agus theid do thagra mam bheil thu deas gu dioladh, no ma ’ta thu smuainteach air an ain-fhiach, ta an tam diolaidh a mheas thu bhi fada uait an toiseach, ag amharc ro ghaoirid mar ’ta i teachd am fogus, saoilidh tu ’n sin, gu ’n do chuir aimsir sgiathan r’a cosaibh, co mhaith is r’a guailibh, sgaoirid an car-fhas leosan da’n la paighe a chaisg, theagamh gu’n saoil sibh san am so, gu ’m bheil sibh ’n staid shoirbheach, agus gu ’n guilein sibh cuid struidhealachd gun chron d’ar maoin.


[TD 82]

Arson aois & easbhui’ dean an caomhna ’ta d’ chomas: cha mhair grian maidne aon la fad solais: feadaidh buantachd a bhi gaoirid & neo’ chinnteach, ach re fad do shaoghail, tha caithe buan agus cinnteach, is usadh da theallach a chuir suas, no aon diubh chunbhail ann connadh, mar a deir, Eoghan Tiarmail, gu ma fearr leat dol a luidh gun suipeir, no eirigh fui ain-fhiach.

Tàr na dh’fheadas, is gle na thàr thu, si so chlach a theandas do luaidh gu òr bui, agus cinnteach ’n nuair gheabh sibh clach uil an fheallsanaich, nach bi sibh re gearan na’s mo air droch amaibh, no air cruadhas nan cìsin.

IV Mo chardaibh ’ta ’n teagasg so glic agus riosanta; ach, na dhiaigh so uile, na deanamh ro earbsa as bhur gniomhachd is bhur crionnachd, agus bhur gliocas fein, oir ge ’ta na nithe sin maith agus ion-mholtadh, gidheadh as eagmhuis beannachadh Dhe, seargaidh iad uile, uime sin, iarr am beannacha so gu h umhail, agus na bi neo sheirceil riusan ata thaobh coslais san am as eugmhuis, ach thoir misneach agus congnadh dhoibh, Cuimhmich gu’n d’ fhuiling. Job car tamail, ach gu roibh e soirbheach an diaidh laimh.

Mar cho dhunadh anois, is daor an maighistir scoill fidreatha, ach cha ghabh amadan foghlam an scoill’ air bith eile, oir is fior an radh, feudaidh sinn comhairle thoirt, ach cha’n urradh sinn giulan glic a cho’ partuch, ach cuimhnich an dream nach gabh comhairle, nach fheadar an leasachadh, osbar, mar eisd thu re riosun, bheir i gu cinnteach thar na rudain dhuit, mar deir Eoghan Tiarmail.

Mar so chriochnaigh an t aosdan uasal a cho’-luadar, dh’éisd an sluagh ris, agus mhol iad a theagasg, agus air ball chuir iad a cheart atharach ann cleachdain, amhuil mar gu ’m bu shearmoin choitchinn a bhi ann; oir thoiseach an reic, agus bhuail iad ar tairgse gu bras. Mhothaigh mi gu do ghabh an deagh dhuine beachd iomlan air mo mhiosachan, agus gu na chuir e an ordu


[TD 83]

na labhair miair na cinn sin re cuig bhiadhna fighid, sgitheiche neach air bi eile bhi gam luadhsa co tric, ach bha m’ uaill mhian gu mor air a shasacha leis, ge do bha mi fiosrach nach buineadh an deicheamh cuid do ’n ghliocas dhamh, a bha eisean ag ainmeach orm, ach na aite sin gu ’m bi iad sin na nithe a chruinnigh mi o bhreunach gach linn agus duthcha. Gidheadh chuir mi romham feum iomchuidh dheanamh d’on fhuaim, agus ge do b’ e mo rùn an toiseach còt ùr a cheannach, dh’ fhalbh mi le rùn shuidhighte mo shean chòta chaitheamh beagan na’s faide. A leaghoir ma ni thusa ni ceudna, bithidh do bhuannachd co mor re mo bhuanachdsa.

CRIOCH.
